'Should I let them know I have this?': Experiences with genetic discrimination amongst patients with hereditary cancer syndromes.
'Space Omics' Program of Significant Scale at BCM-HGSC
17 years old Puerto Rican male with a Laminopathy disorder
2-Sample Mendelian Randomization Reveal Widespread Lipidomic Dysregulation Underpinning Severe Obesity in Self-identified Mexican Americans
20k T1d Exomes Cohort In Ukraine
3D Structure-based development of prediction model for the functional assessment of genetic variation of RAG1 and RAG2 complex
3D features of the genome impact escape from X inactivation.
3D genomic features across over 50 diverse cell types reveal insights into the common and differing genomic architectures of sixteen autoimmune disorders
3D modelling predicts reduced stability and protein binding for a biallelic missense variant in the Sonic Hedgehog gene in autism spectrum disorder
3D-4-BigData: 3D Printed Electronics enabled 4D Visualization of Big Data Networks in Human Genetics
3DIV update for 2021: a comprehensive resource of genome and 3D cancer genome
3DVariantVision: Multimodal framework to interpret genetic variant effects based on 3D chromatin
6q25.2q25.3 duplication and 2q14.1q14.2 deletion due to a three-generation familial chromosomal insertion is identified in a proband with the unbalanced form presenting with multiple congenital anomalies
9p21.3 microdeletion cancer susceptibility syndrome: Case series, systematic literature review, and continued clinical challenges.
A BAYESIAN NETWORK-BASED APPROACH FOR MULTI-OMICS INTEGRATION TO REVEAL UNDERLYING MECHANISMS OF HEALTHY AGING
A COL12A1 heterozygous mutation leads to bent bone dysplasia.
A Common Vision of Accelerated Genomic Research Discovery: 100,000 Genomes and the BIG Initiative
A DNA methylation atlas of normal human cell types
A DNA repair-reporter deep mutational scan to comprehensively map missense effects in MUTYH
A Drosophila Model for MED12-associated Rare Genetic Diseases
A Drosophila Model for Mucopolysaccharidosis IIIA
A Drosophila model for Mucopolysaccharidosis type IIIB (MPS IIIB)
A Drug Screen Identifies Potential Therapeutics to Improve Secretory Protein Trafficking Defects Seen in Neural Progenitor Cells from Microcephaly, Epilepsy, and permanent neonatal Diabetes Syndrome Patients
A Flexible Network Based Framework for Identifying Drug-Disease Relationships including Repurposing Opportunities and Adverse Effects
A Functionally Informed Rare Variant Analysis Approach for Unbalanced Case-Control Ratios in Biobank-Scale Sequencing Data
A GWAS-in-a-Dish using isolated human islets identifies diabetes risk variants associated with insulin secretion and content
A Gene EXPRESSION RESOURCE TO EVALUATE HUMAN LIVER CELL LINES AS MODELS FOR HUMAN LIVER BIOLOGY
A Graph Neural Network Approach for Disease Prediction based on Nation-wide Pedigree in over 6 Million Individuals with Extensive Health Information
A Large Meta-Analysis Identifies Genes Associated with Anterior Uveitis
A Linear Relationship between the Number of Cancers in the Family History of First-degree Relatives and the Risk of Multiple Primary Cancers
A Litmus Test for Confounding in Polygenic Scores
A Locus for Cognitive Preservation on Chromosome 2p11.2-13.1 in the Midwestern Amish
A Mendelian Randomization Study of Haematological Traits and Type-2 Diabetes Mellitus in African Ancestry Individuals
A Multi-Ancestry Meta-Analysis of GWAS for Mitral Valve Prolapse Identifies 34 Novel Genomic Regions
A Multiomic timecourse atlas of murine vascular disease smooth muscle cell transition phenotypes and their perturbations with coronary disease gene Tcf21 knockout
A Novel Autosomal Dominant Childhood-Onset Disorder Associated with Pathogenic Variants inVCP
A Novel Compound Heterozygous Variant in ATAD3A Associated with Neurodegeneration, Mitochondrial DNA Depletion and Epilepsia Partialis Continua
A Novel Fine-mapping Method for Multi-ancestry and Admixed Populations
A Novel Method for the Detection of 40 Amino Acids Relevant to Inborn Errors of Metabolism, in Under 60 Minutes Using Reverse Phase High Performance Liquid Chromatography
A PSEN1 E280A sheep model of Alzheimer's Disease
A Pangenome Reference of 36 Chinese populations
A Phenome-Wide Systemic Approach to Large-Scale GWAS Meta-Analysis of More Than 1200 Traits in Over 30 Studies
A Pilot project: Examining gender-specific transcriptional alterations in Myalgic Encephalomyelitis/Chronic Fatigue Syndrome patients under stressful conditions.
A Predictive Machine Learning Pipeline for Functional Genomics Screens
A Protein Signatures-Based Decoy Framework For Improved Protein Identification In Target-Decoy Search Approach
A RING1 contribution to neurogenesis and schizophrenia
A Statistical Testing Framework for Structural Difference and Similarity of Multiple Proteomics Networks based on Gaussian Graphical Models
A Systematic Exploration of Phenotypic and Genetic Relationships Between Physical Activity and Brain Health
A Transformer-Based Architecture for Cell Type-Level Analysis of Alzheimer's Disease Using Single-Cell RNA Sequencing Data
A Two-stage Linear Mixed Model (TS-LMM) for Summary-data-based Multivariable Mendelian Randomization
A VUS re-analysis: Understanding the likely disease-mechanism of a de novo missense variant in RALA using public bioinformatic tools
A Variant in Sperm-Specific Glycolytic Enzyme Enolase 4 ENO4Causes Human Male Infertility.
A biobank catalogue of transcriptomes and associated genetic effects based on 2,000 subjects uncovers the causal effects of Middle Eastern genetic variation and uncovers novel disease mechanisms
A blood-based multi’omic analysis of response to vedolizumab treatment in IBD
A brief primer on multiplex assays of variant effect (MAVEs) with application to long QT syndrome variants
A case of 17p13.3 microdeletion with breakpoint in the gene for CRK
A case of MBTPS1-related disorder due to compound heterozygous variants in MBTPS1 gene: genotype-phenotype expansion and the emergence of a novel syndrome
A case report and review of the literature suggests that Turner syndrome associated with Xp deletions may cause increased autoimmune disease due to aberrant X chromosome inactivation in immune cells.
A case series: phenotypic variations of male MECP2 disorders
A case study of a female infant with primary hypertrophic osteoarthropathy demonstrates that early initiation of celecoxib slows but does not prevent symptom progression.
A case with critical risk for X chromosome aneuploidy in non-invasive prenatal testing (NIPT); confirmed to deletion of Xq27.3-q28 and duplication of Xq28
A cistrome-wide association study identifies novel risk loci for renal cell carcinoma.
A classifier for lifetime cannabis use based on DNA methylation.
A clinical and molecular approach for the classification of KANSL1 variants as a strategy to solve pitfalls of genome-wide investigations.
A clinical knowledge graph-based machine learning framework to prioritize candidate genes for facilitating diagnosis of Mendelian diseases and rare genetic conditions.
A cloud based pipeline for rare variant analysis using public summary counts for prioritizing disease predisposition genes in rare disease studies.
A cloud-based pipeline for genome-wide short tandem repeat detection in genome sequencing and its application to orofacial clefting.
A cohort of Tunisian patients with Netherton syndrome: Molecular signature and Genetic investigations
A combination of cytogenetic and molecular genetic tools, including long-read sequencing, resolves multiple breakpoints in a patient with complex structural variation.
A common flanking variant is associated with enhanced meiotic stability of the FGF14-SCA27B locus
A comparative analysis of a rare condition with a skeletal phenotype - FLNB related spectrum: case series
A comparison of Whole-Genome Bisulfite Sequencing and Oxford Nanopore Technology for epigenetic studies.
A comparison of the obesity-associated transcriptome in skeletal muscle of African Americans and Europeans
A compendium of HLA allelic associations with plasma protein levels in the UK Biobank
A compendiumof manually annotated genetic variants for Alkaptonuria-AKUHub
A complete end-to-end workflow for implementing clinical polygenic risk scores
A comprehensive genetic analysis unravels the impact of PVRL1 in the risk of nonsyndromic cleft lip with or without cleft palate across ethnically diverse populations.
A comprehensive integrated post-GWAS analysis of reproductive lifespan reveals enhancer-based NBR2 dysregulation in ovary
A comprehensive single-cell RNA sequencing analysis evaluating the role of T-lymphocytes in idiopathic and genetic Parkinson’s disease.
A computational toolkit to integrate multi-omics time-series data across species in brain development
A consanguineous Yemeni Family with 7 sibs affected by either Severe Anterior chamber defects of eyes due to PXDN pathogenic variant exon 17 C/T and/or Intellectual disability of Unknown Etiology.
A consensus algorithm for genetic demultiplexing of scRNA-seq from pooled iPSC cultures of multiple subjects for cohort-scale analysis
A contextual genome-wide perspective on physical activity and its relationship to health and illness
A continuous local ancestry measure and efficient local-ancestry-aware association tests
A cost effective whole genome sequencing method identifies clinically relevant germline variants in patients recruited in a breast cancer clinic.
A cross-population atlas of genome-wide gene-environment interactions between the East Asian and European populations
A database of genes and mutations associated with chlamydia species drug resistance.
A deep learning model for predicting probeset performance of genotyping microarrays
A deep population reference panel of tandem repeat variation
A distinct genotype and phenotypes in pediatric patients with biventricular noncompaction
A draft diploid reference pangenome construction from a distinct Arab population
A drug repurposing screen reveals dopamine signaling is important for the rare disease DPAGT1-CDG.
A dual diagnosis of Okur-Chung neurodevelopmental syndrome and Becker muscular dystrophy highlights the lower limits of neurodevelopmental functioning attributable to muscular dystrophy
A familial, telomere-to-telomere (T2T) reference genome for human variation, recombination, and mutation
A framework to evaluate and validate polygenic risk models at scale.
A framework to evaluate the utility of embeddings in genetic discovery
A framework to improve the interpretation and prediction of variant effect sizes using non-linear functional models
A genetic analysis of familial aggregation in inflammatory bowel disease multiplex families.
A genetic assessment of the likelihood of patrilocal mating in Neanderthals
A genetic risk profile classifies disease severity in children with sickle cell anemia from birth to six years of age.
A genetics-first approach to identify novel variants of the calcium sensing receptor associated with autosomal dominant hypocalcemia type 1
A genome-first approach to cancer phenotypes, penetrance and survival rates of individuals who harbor concurrent pathogenic/likely pathogenic variants inCHEK2and other cancer predisposition genes.
A genome-first approach to characterize DICER1pathogenic variant prevalence, penetrance and phenotype in adults from two population-scale cohorts
A genome-first approach to quantify cancer risk in individuals harboring CHEK2 pathogenic truncating variants versus pathogenic missense variants in two population-scale cohorts
A genome-wide CRISPR screen identifies TNRC18 as a novel regulator of inflammatory signaling
A genome-wide association study of 10000 Japanese whole genome sequencing data to identify the risk genes for brain structure changes.
A genome-wide interaction study identified genetic variants modifying the associations of fish oil supplementation with circulating polyunsaturated fatty acids.
A genome-wide meta-analysis connects iron homeostasis to metabolic disease through poly-unsaturated fatty acid synthesis.
A genome-wide search for pleiotropy in more than 100,000 harmonized longitudinal cognitive domain scores
A genotype-first approach identifies high incidence of NF1 pathogenic variants with distinct disease associations
A graph clustering algorithm for detection and genotyping of structural variants from long reads.
A haploblock involving dozens of variable and/or differentially expressed proteins contributes to the large effect of HLA-B57 in HIV-1 control
A haplotype based extreme phenotype GWAS to functional investigation revealed the function of CNTNAP5 in glaucomatous neurodegeneration
A haplotype-aware framework for detecting differentially methylated regions using Oxford Nanopore sequencing.
A harmonized public resource of deeply sequenced diverse human genomes.
A heterozygous de novo FEM1C variant in a female patient presenting with developmental delay and ataxia.
A heterozygous mutation in UBE2H in a patient with developmental delay leads to an aberrant brain development in zebrafish
A high-resolution view of human gene expression and splicing diversity with long-read sequencing
A high-throughput and high-resolution diagnostic assay for determination of methylation status of the CGG repeat region in 5’UTR of FMR1 gene
A high-throughput approach to the MHC assembly challenge in disease genetics
A high-throughput screen to nominate phenotypically relevant asthma genes from genome-wide association studies.
A high-throughput, automated ATAC-seq reveals quantitative regulatory effects of transcription factor dosage.
A homozygous rare missense variant in YKT6 results in loss-of-function and is associated with infantile liver failure and developmental delays.
A homozygous variant in triokinase and FMN cyclase abolishing triokinase activities is associated with isolated immunodeficiency.
A hyperVNTR is located in intron 8 of the human dopamine transporter gene (SLC6A3).
A joint model for transcriptome-wide association study analysis to dissect gene and pathway level contribution to complex polygenic traits
A joint model of cell-type-specific RNA and protein expressions in the human brain.
A key neuroendocrine stress response gene linked with post traumatic stress disorder is rapidly evolving in humans.
A large-scale genomic survey of coding sequence variation in rhesus macaques reveals substantial numbers of predicted damaging variants in disease-related genes.
A large-scale meta-analysis of genome-wide association studies reveals genetics underlying Parkinson's Disease leveraging electronic health records.
A late C-terminal frameshift variant in GPKOW is associated with a multisystemic X-linked disorder.
A likelihood-based framework for demographic inference from genealogical trees
A likely pathogenic variant in RYR2 causing Catecholaminergic polymorphic ventricular tachycardia in an Iranian family.
A longitudinal study on the maternal blood transcriptome during the early phase of onset of labor
A machine learning association model for hypertension development using gene-based polygenic risk scores (PRS) and lifestyle factors.
A map of genetic and phenotypic associations across male reproductive phenotypes.
A meta-analysis of genome-wide association studies of high-sensitive CRP in Korean.
A method for fine-mapping time-to-event phenotype based on 'sum of single effects' model
A method to improve GWAS by combining cohorts across genotyping platforms.
A molecular autopsy of fetuses with cerebral abnormalities and description of PLAT as a new putative hydrocephalus gene
A mouse model of gyrate atrophy shows progressive retinal dysfunction and serves as a tool for investigating novel gene editing and gene replacement therapies.
A multi omics classifier for prediction of androgen deprivation treatment response in prostate cancer patients
A multi-ancestry genome-wide association study identifies a novel candidate locus near the RARB gene associated with hypertensive disorders of pregnancy in the Personalized Environment and Genes Study (PEGS) cohort.
A multi-ethnic reference panel to impute classical and non-classical HLA class I alleles: Enhancing HLA imputation accuracy in admixed populations.
A multi-omics approach to characterize genetic architecture of plasma lipidome in Hispanics/Latinos
A multi-omics approach to the characterization of a novel repeat expansion in FAM193B in a family with oculopharyngodistal myopathy
A multiomics Mendelian randomization study identifying novel therapeutic targets for alcohol use disorder and problem drinking in the cortical proteome
A multivariate fixation index for measuring genomic differentiation of human populations
A naturally occurring variant of MBD4 causes maternal germline hypermutation in primates.
A network-based evaluation of sex-specific genetic differences in cross-phenotype associations from the UK Biobank
A new Approach to Identify Gene-Environment Interactions: Gene by cigarette smoking and alcohol consumption interactions for serum lipids in diverse populations
A new gene discovery approach for structural birth defects employing an innovative machine learning algorithm
A new gene expression environmental decomposition method applied for the study of T2D in Mexican Americans
A new genetic risk score model for incorporating Gene-Environment interactions
A new hybrid method provides robust analysis for clustered data, with applications to single-cell transcriptomics data.
A new hypothesis for the molecular mechanisms underlying dominant diseases
A new method to quantify cell type-specific heritability in single cell gene expression data
A new model-based method controlling for gene flow using ancient genomes obtains less biased estimates of the selection coefficient
A new registry for genetic diagnosis of inborn errors of immunity within the military health system
A new tool for enhancing the interpretability of machine learning prediction models leveraging '-omics' data.
A novel DNA collection method for genomic sequencing in infants
A novel FAM92A gene variant further confirms its association with non-syndromic postaxial polydactyly type A9
A novel FBN1 intron variant causing isolated ectopia lentis via an in-frame exon skipping
A novel FLCN-related syndrome leading to intellectual disability, immunodeficiency, and leukemia predisposition.
A novel SHANK3 missense mutation in a child with autism spectrum disorder, motor delay, and hypotonia.
A novel approach for genetic association test identifies risk genes for dental caries.
A novel approach, LASeQTL, shows local ancestry has widespread effects on regulation of gene expression and improves functional annotation of GWAS signals
A novel basic carrier test for all ethnicities using long read sequencing and an artificial intelligence platform.
A novel deep intronic PHEX variant associated with X-linked hypophosphatemia in a two-generation Finnish family
A novel framework for functional annotation of ASD and ID linked variants of uncertain significance.
A novel gene regulatory element that modulates cardiomyocyte maturation.
A novel genomics analysis pipeline identifies mitochondrial somatic variants.
A novel germline deep intronic BAP1 variant leading to aberrant gene splicing in a patient with familial uveal melanoma
A novel hemizygous variant in FGD1 in a male patient with X-linked Aarskog-Scott syndrome.
A novel likely pathogenic FBN1A, p.(Cys896Ser) associated with Marfan syndrome.
A novel meta-analysis of total mediation effect for high-dimensional omics mediators and cardiovascular traits in over 5800 TOPMed individuals
A novel method for hepatocyte isolation combined with cell size agnostic single cell RNA sequencing enables scalable analysis of liver cells
A novel method for nucleic acid extraction from FFPE tissue: high compatibility and enhanced convenience with NGS applications.
A novel missense variant in CLPP gene causing Perrault syndrome in a large Sudanese family
A novel mouse model of uveal coloboma arises from genetic rearrangement on Chr13.
A novel multi-omics mendelian randomization method for gene set enrichment and its application to psychiatric disorders
A novel multi-view clustering approach for integrating genotypes and 3D facial images in the presence of confounders.
A novel mutation in ITGB2 in Pakistani families causes Leukocyte Adhesion Deficiency Type I
A novel non-recurrent CNV deletion involving TBX4 leaving TBX2 intact, in a newborn with congenital alveolar dysplasia.
A novel single-cell in situ WGS library preparation method is compatible with target enrichment.
A novel statistical method to identify germline genetic modifiers of driver mutations in cancer.
A novel streamlined pipeline for studying RNA editing: detect the effect of RNA editing QTLs in the non-coding genome.
A novel type of Benign Adult Familial Myoclonic Epilepsy (BAFME) in a large Malian family
A novel, all-in-one adeno-associated vector for epigenome-editing perturbations: proof-of-concept and preclinical validation in the CNS
A pathway-based, ultra-rare variant association study identifies phenotype specific germline risk of breast cancer.
A patient with ATOH7 variants with Delayed Sleep-Wake Phase Disorder and Optic Nerve Hypoplasia.
A phenome-wide association study of large tandem repeats and multicopy genes in the UK Biobank
A phenome-wide association study of methylated GC-rich repeats identifies a GCC repeat expansion in AFF3 as a significant cause of intellectual disability.
A pilot prospective study of BeginNGS, an artificial intelligence-enabled genome sequencing system for newborn screening of 412 childhood genetic diseases
A pipeline to curate GWAS summary statistics and identify independent traits
A playbook for the implementation of genetics services and research in a developing country: a 10 year-experience from DR Congo
A polygenic risk score explains variation in monogenic autoimmunity presentation.
A polygenic risk score of postoperative nausea and vomiting improves risk prediction and shows genetic correlation with CNS conditions including vertigo and motion sickness
A pooled-based screening strategy for re-classification of NPR2 missense variants to support the expansion of Vosoritide for genetic causes of short stature
A proactive missense variant atlas for the Autoimmune Regulator.
A probabilistic framework for joint analysis of genetically-predicted molecular gene product levels and colocalization to identify complex trait mechanisms.
A probabilistic graphical model for estimating selection coefficient of nonsynonymous variants from human population sequence data
A proposal of mechanism of non-syndromic deafness associated with a novel BCAP31 variant: mitochondrial dysfunction and high sensitivity to cisplatin
A rare form of myopathy, with extrapyramidal signs, in a 14-year-old female: case report.
A reference panel to improve genotype imputation for Native Hawaiians
A resampling-based approach to share reference panels.
A risk locus on chromosome 12 is suggested by genome-wide association study in Puerto Ricans for Alzheimer disease
A roadmap for precision prevention in primary care using a PRS enabled preventive intervention to promote lung cancer screening and smoking cessation
A robust cis-Mendelian randomization method with application to drug target discovery
A scalable statistical framework for genome-wide interaction testing harnessing cross-trait correlations with an application to lipid analysis in UK Biobank
A scalable variational inference approach for increased mixed-model association power.
A scan of selective signals in whole-genome sequencing data from Canary Islanders
A sequence variation graph-based approach to genotype immunoglobulin genes using short read sequencing data
A sequencing first approach improves access to a precise genetic diagnosis in kids newly diagnosed with atypical development
A sex-stratified analysis of the genetic architecture of human brain anatomy
A significant difference in the prevalence of genotypes and alleles in SNPs known to be associated with strength, endurance and injury propensity in the local population compared to the prevalence in global databases
A simulation study comparing cognitive decline measures in Alzheimer's disease
A single cell CRISPRi enhancer screen in microglia identifies target genes for Alzheimer’s disease GWAS loci.
A single cell eQTL atlas for cell type specific regulatory effects
A statistical approach for detecting trends in underpowered genome-wide association studies
A stringent filter for putative NMD escape variants improves rare variant association tests.
A structural biology approach for PheWAS analysis for antidepressant repurposing
A study of the natural history of RARB-related disorders.
A symphony of genes: Exploring the diverse landscape of human copy number variable Y-chromosomal ampliconic genes.
A synergistic effects of chemical chaperone and valproic acid on GBA mutations in Gaucher disease.
A systematic analysis of the shared and specific genetic signals among 15 autoimmune diseases.
A systematic review of international adult Neurofibromatosis 1 surveillance frameworks.
A systematic way to find children with undiagnosed genetic diseases.
A targeted NGS panel with a 20% diagnostic yield in Short Stature reveals the contribution of digenic/oligogenic inheritance in growth disorders disclosing novel potential gene interactions
A test of genotyping platform bias for multiethnic case/control association studies merging external controls
A timeline of human evolution: Leveraging GWAS and comparative genomic data to contextualize human-evolved diseases and morphological traits
A trans-ancestral meta-analysis of genome-wide association study identifies 146 susceptibility loci for rheumatoid arthritis
A trans-ancestry clinical validation of a polygenic score for height in a cohort of 13,194 children
A transformer model for accurate genotype imputation.
A tree-based algorithm for identifying mutator alleles from genetic variation data
A trial of resveratrol therapy in a patient with CMIP haploinsufficiency and autism spectrum disorder.
A unified computing environment for genomics data storage, management, and analysis: NHGRI Genomic Data Science Analysis, Visualization, and Informatics Lab-Space (AnVIL).
A unified framework for phenome-wide genetic effect variance and correlation estimation utilizing GWAS summary statistics with applications to UK Biobank
A unified model for cell-type resolution genomics from heterogeneous omics data
A universal blood genotyping array tailored for research by transfusion services achieves high accuracy in a large, ethnically diverse cohort
A values typology of underpinning responses to gene editing compared to other means of enhancement
A variant in mitochondrial protein import complex leads to microcephalic osteodysplastic dwarfism with moyamoya disease
A weak effect of PIEZO1 short tandem repeat deletions on severe malaria susceptibility estimated in 18,000 samples.
ABCA1missense mutations are associated with Lewy body dementia
ABCC6 three-state structural model enhances functional interpretation of genetic variants.
ABO gene, Faecalicatena lactaris, and Covid-19 Susceptibility and Clinical Outcomes
AD-by-proxy Polygenic Risk Scores: A New Predictor for Alzheimer's Disease and Age of Onset
AI for Next-Generation Gene Design
AI-Enhanced Integration of Genetic and Medical Imaging Data for Risk Assessment of Type 2 Diabetes
APHMG Undergraduate Medical Education Core Competencies in Genetics and Genomics: A framework and implementation example.
APOE4-stratified GWAS of multiple cognitive domains in non-Hispanic white and non-Hispanic black older adults
ARHGAP1 identified as a candidate gene for a novel autosomal dominant syndromic neurodevelopmental disorder.
ARID3A: a novel gene associated with congenital anomalies of the kidneys and urinary tract.
ASD-associated alterations in chromatin accessibility and chromosome conformation pinpoint dysregulated transcription factor network and highlight genetic variants in distal regulatory regions
ASXL3 in cortical development: Molecular insights from rare genetic variants
ASXL3: Connecting chromatin biology to neurodevelopmental disorders.
ATXN2 knockdown in zebrafish leads to phenotypic features supporting a role for Ataxin-2 in primary open-angle glaucoma pathogenesis
AUTS2 syndrome: a recognizable clinical entity.
Abca2 depletion associated with gastrulation and neurological defects in Xenopus tropicalis.
Aberrant expression prediction in 48 human tissues
Aberrant landscapes of maternal meiotic crossovers contribute to aneuploidies in human embryos
Aberrant splicing prediction across human tissues.
Abnormalities of TBX1 result in broad overlapping features of 22q11.2 deletion syndrome
Abstract: Investigating the causal relationship between glycemic trait and cardiac structure/function using Mendelian randomization
Accelerated Failure Time and Parametric Shared Frailty Model with the Application of Infant Mortality EDHS 2016 Data, 2023.
Accelerated workflows for analyzing long-read sequenced genomes in the NIH All of Us Program
Accelerating psychiatric genetics research in Latin American populations, Latin American Genomics Consortia efforts and Novel findings
Accounting for cardiac cell composition in GTEx with single-nucleus reference profiles yields novel genetic-trait associations.
Accounting for distant relatedness with genealogical data in a multivariate analysis of eye disease and cognitive phenotypes
Accounting for heterogeneity in genetic susceptibility by disease subtype identifies eight novel breast cancer risk loci
Accurate Estimation of Genetic Admixture Proportions Via Haplotype Modeling
Accurate rare variant phasing of 200,031 UK Biobank whole-genomes
Activating B cells Facilitates the Discovery of Latent Disease-associated Variants
Acute effects of glucocorticoid treatment on gene expression during oral glucose tolerance testglucose tolerance test
Adaptations to diving in the Haenyeo of Jeju, Korea
Adapting the AD8 Dementia Screening Interview and the Clinical Dementia Rating (CDR) scale for use in Tongan
Additional impact of genetic ancestry over self-reported race/ethnicity to prevalence of KRAS mutations and allele-specific subtypes in non-small cell lung cancer
Addressing inequity in rare disease genomic research: preliminary findings from the Rare Genomes Project
Adherence to risk management guidelines in individuals with hereditary cancer conditions in Singapore
Adjunct treatment with glycogen synthase (GYS1) antisense oligonucleotides and enzyme replacement therapy (ERT) reduces glycogen in the Pompe disease mouse model.
Adjusting genetic confounders lead to detection of causal molecular traits underlying complex phenotypes
Admixture mapping reveals Amerindian-specific Alzheimer disease risk loci in Puerto Ricans.
Adulthood vs. Childhood Onset MELAS: Clinical insights and prognostic factors explored.
Advancing Precision Diagnosis through Simultaneous Detection of Diverse Variant Types: Insights from Clinical Whole Genome Sequencing
Advancing Precision Oncology Using Integrated Interpretation of the Germline and Tumor Genomes
Advancing Recombinant Adeno-Associated Virus Vector Integration Analysis through Next-Generation Sequencing Optimization
Advancing Tay Sachs Disease Carrier Screening: Insights from Combined Enzyme and Molecular Approaches
Advancing genomic research in the Korean population through comprehensive genomic scans using the Korea Biobank Array v2.0
Advancing insights in Xia-Gibbs Syndrome: A universal registry platform for phenotypic analysis and longitudinal patient engagement
Advancing the pace of omics research and discovery
African Americans with Sickle Cell Disease (SCD) demonstrate accelerated epigenetic aging compared to African Americans without SCD.
African ancestry individuals with higher educational attainment are resilient to Alzheimer disease pathology specific blood biomarker pTau181.
African-specific, Alzheimer's disease-associated deletion in ABCA7 alters the functionality of CNS cells.
Age and parasitemia explain most of the variation in host and parasite gene expression among Malian children infected with P. falciparum
Age of asthma onset and risk of cardiovascular disease: A Mendelian randomization study
Age-related transcriptional regulation in blood revealed by long-read sequencing
Aggregated best subset selection using summary statistics for polygenic risk prediction.
Aggregation of over 600,000 predictors for cancer risk stratification
Alcohol sensitivity associated genome wide DNA methylation changes in alcohol use disorder patients and healthy controls
Aligning timely diagnosis of Duchenne Muscular Dystrophy with return of results from molecular diagnostic testing
Allele frequency analysis of genetic variants related to the pharmacogenomics of Parkinson’s disease in Latinos: A second-look between population groups, towards a feasible clinical reproducibility of results.
Allele- and tissue-specific expression across 11 tissues in baboons (Papio anubis)
Allele-specific binding of EHMT2/G9a is required to maintain maternal imprintswithin Prader-Willi Syndrome candidate region
Allelic drop-out (ADO) caused by variability in primer-binding sites and beyond influences an accuracy of PCR-based sequencing methods
Allelic series-based analyses of rare variants are enhanced by sequence models.
Alterations of super-enhancers in T-cell Prolymphocytic Leukemia.
Altered lipid storage and metabolism in Smith-Magenis syndrome:Rai1haploinsufficiency causes increased storage of cholesterol esters, diacylglycerols, and triacylglycerols in a mouse model of SMS.
Alternative Therapeutics for Breast Cancer: An Assessment of Promising Anticarcinogenic Plants Derived from Traditional Medicinal Use; Persimmon Leaf Extract (Diospiros kaki), Marjoram Extract (Origanum majorana) and Thyme Extract (Thymus .
Alternative promoter usage by NFkB tunes transcript diversity during the endothelial inflammatory response.
Alternative splicing dynamics and allele-specificity during T cell activation
Alzheimer's disease and herpes simplex virus type 1 - gene-viral interactions
Alzheimer's disease genetic risk and Cognitive 'SuperAging' in the Midwestern Amish
Alzheimer’s disease APOE4 variant associated with metabolites while Alzheimer’s disease polygenic risk score lacks association with metabolites.
Alzheimer’s disease is associated with reduced survival across generations in APOE4 carriers and non-carriers.
Alzheimer’s disease risk alleles are enriched in myeloid transcription factor binding sites.
Aminoacylase 1 deficiency: case report on three affected siblings
Amplicon based NGS using mostly natural sequencing-by-synthesis.
An Alzheimer’s Disease risk variant in TTC3 modifies the actin cytoskeleton organization and PI3K-Akt signaling in iPSC-derived forebrain neurons.
An EBV-associated atypical B cell signature in clinically isolated syndromeis implicated in progression of multiple sclerosis
An MLH1 Gene Mutation in a 27-Year-Old Male: A Case of Somatic Symbiosis
An SFS-based model of negative selection predicts fine-scale constraint in the noncoding genome
An accurate machine learning model trained on clinically curated variants to predict the variant pathogenicity score
An adult male with UPF1-related neurodevelopmental disorder
An analysis of how known SNPs affect ramp sequences in the human genome and their implications for human disease
An analytical framework to identify novel disease genes including common and rare variants
An ancient DNA time-transect of the Western Steppe from 1000 BCE to 1000 CE disproves the Khazar hypothesis of Ashkenazi Jewish origins.
An approach for standardizing and optimizing the process for genomic test order creation, sample intake, report generation, and result delivery for clinical whole genome sequencing including integration with tertiary analysis platforms.
An association of rs7442295 in SLC2A9 with urate levels at baseline and in interaction with iloperidone
An association study on adolescent cases of BNT162b2 vaccine-induced myocarditis in Hong Kong.
An atlas of gene regulatory variants mediating the association between brain morphology and obesity.
An atlas of trans- genetic effects across human tissues.
An augmented reference panel with 22,134 haplotypes enhances GWAS analysis and the rare variants detecting power of hip bone mass density.
An automated quality control system for the biochemical genetics laboratory.
An efficient design for whole genome trio sequencing identifies key variants in rare neurological disease cases.
An efficient variant phasing utilizing a replication cycle reaction system
An ensemble machine learning method for phenotypic refinement from binary symptom data.
An imputation panel with disease-enriched variants for improving single-nucleotide and structure variants discovery on array data in Alzheimer's Disease
An in silico analysis ofrpoBmutations to affectChlamydia pneumoniaesensitivity to rifamycin
An in vivo screen identifies small molecule modulators of the endoplasmic reticulum stress response.
An individualized Bayesian inference framework for detecting genomic variantsandtheir interactions for complex diseases.
An integration of common disease GWAS and omics to fuel rare disease target discovery.
An integrative approach to detect potential blood-based biomarkers for frailty.
An integrative approach with Perturb-seq, eQTL, and GWAS data identifies mediating genes in regulatory networks of complex traits
An integrative framework mapping the functional effects of rare noncoding variation in autism spectrum disorder leveraging high-resolution enhancer annotation
An integrative strategy to link regulatory elements from disease GWAS to genes using single-cell multiome data.
An interstitial deletion of chromosome 6q16 in an infant with multiple congenital anomalies: A case report.
An ultra-rare variant of GPX4 reveals the structural basis for lipid membrane attachment
Analysis GNAS inactivation disorders in a large Korean cohort with pseudohypoparathyroidism using whole exome sequencing (WES) and methylation-specific multiplex ligation-dependent probe amplification (MS-MLPA).
Analysis of 14392 whole genomes reveals 5.2% of Qataris carry medically actionable variants.
Analysis of >800,000 diverse sequenced humans in gnomAD improves clinical interpretation and provides insight into gene function.
Analysis of IDH1positive enchondroma RNA sequencing shows disruption of the HIF1 pathway in patients with enchondromatoses
Analysis of RNAseq from over 5,000 individuals in the 100,000 Genomes Project identifies new potential diagnoses for patients with rare disease
Analysis of cardiopulmonary function in patients with Gaucher disease
Analysis of caudate nucleus transcriptome in individuals with schizophrenia identifies new risk genes and implicates pre-synaptic DRD2 autoreceptor dysregulation as a genetic risk factor for schizophrenia
Analysis of cellular heterogeneity in bladder cancer.
Analysis of competitive endogenous RNA (ceRNA) networks as epigenetic regulators of cardiogenesis.
Analysis of de novo variants in trios with orofacial clefts identifies GRHL2 as a novel gene
Analysis of gut microbiome in a low and high endotoxin house dust mite induced airway hyperresponsiveness mouse model
Analysis of host genetics using genome sequencing data of 1,220 SARS-CoV-2 infected individuals
Analysis of imprinted genes in cancer cell lines using multi-omics data.
Analysis of public long-read transcriptome datasets reveals a putative SINE-VNTR-Alu-intrinsic antisense promoter.
Analysis of targeted and whole genome sequencing of PacBio HiFi reads for a comprehensive genotyping of genic and phenotype associated Variable Number Tandem Repeats.
Analysis of the frequency and association of the rs2758346 variant of the SOD2 gene in breast cancer
Analysis of the frequency and association of the rs5746094 (T/C) variant of the SOD2 gene in breast cancer
Analysis of variants of uncertain significance in familial dyslipidemia in the Puerto Rican population: Implications for risk stratification and early intervention.
Analysis of vitamin D receptor-binding variants in susceptibility to pediatric-onset multiple sclerosis.
Analyzing bivariate cross-trait genetic architecture in GWAS summary statistics with the BIGA cloud computing platform
Analyzing large-scale Tourette Syndrome whole-exome sequencing data reveals a significant contribution of de novo mutations.
Analyzing the impact of genetic loci that decouple obesity from abdominal fat distribution through in vitro adipocyte perturbation and differentiation
Ancestral bias alters structural variant breakpoints
Ancestry Specific Polygenic Risk Score, Dietary Patterns and Cardiovascular Disease
Ancestry determination using REVEAL: VariantBank, an efficient storage, management, and computational analysis platform for VCF files
Ancestry-informed regression identifies ancestry-specific effects for multiple sclerosis risk in Hispanic / Latino and African American populations.
Ancestry-specific changes in the genomic regulatory architecture of iPSC derived oligodendrocyte enriched neural spheroids in the light of Alzheimer’s disease.
Ancestry-specific regulatory and disease architectures are likely due to cell-type-specific gene-by-environment interactions
Ancient DNA from 576 prehistoric people reveals the genetic history of the Sambaqui shellmound builders of Brazil.
Ancient viral detection using metagenomic data from ancient individuals
Androgen and mineralocorticoid receptor signaling are drivers of - and therapeutic targets for - pubertal vascular rupture in Vascular Ehlers-Danlos Syndrome (VEDS) mice.
Annotation Query (AnnoQ): An Integrated and Interactive Platform for Comprehensive Genetic Variant Annotation on a Large Scale
Annotation and scoring of the deleteriousness of individual genetic variants in the 4th release of the Alzheimer’s Disease Sequencing Project
Annotation of non-canonical open reading frames to advance human genetics research
Anophthalmia/ Microphthalmia Spectrum: Clinical, cytogenetics and molecular results of 45 Egyptian Patients
Antagonistic selection of infectious and non-infectious immune-mediated disorders revealed by vertical pleiotropy
Antibodies and Aptamers: A Comprehensive Evaluation of the Current State-of-the-Art Technologies in High-Throughput Proteomics.
Apert Syndrome: A New Variant With Uncertain Significance
Application of deep mutational scanning data for MLH1 variant interpretation
Application of network-based heterogeneity clustering for investigation of genotype-phenotype correlations in BioMe BioBank
Application of scDRS in autism spectrum disorder characterizes cell type and single cell level disease association.
Application of single-cell multiomics technology to establish an effective screening method for identifying fetal nucleated red blood cells suitable for non-invasive prenatal genetic testing.
Applying ACMG/AMP Variant Curation Guidelines for SCID - ClinGen SCID VCEP Recommendations
Applying local genetic covariance of functional annotations to increase the power of multi-trait association test to identify pleiotropic loci
Approximate haplotype-based methods reveal fine-scale population structure, ancestry, and admixture in 70,000 Chinese.
Archaic humans have contributed to large-scale variation in modern human T cell receptor genes.
Arginine, Glycine, and Creatine Supplementation Improves Symptoms in a Female with SLC6A8 Creatine Transporter Deficiency
Argininosuccinate lyase deficiency is associated with blood-brain barrier disruption via nitric oxide-mediated dysregulation of claudin expression.
Array-CGH analysis in a cohort of Czech patients with intellectual disabilities and autism spectrum disorders
Artificial Intelligence Based Chromosome Analysis
Artificial Intelligence and Geographic Analysis of Clinical Genetic Data in California’s Central Valley
Artificial intelligence improves early diagnosis in delayed puberty
Asian Health Coalition (AHC) addresses cultural and linguistic barriers in genomics education for Asian Americans, Native Hawaiians, and Pacific Islanders (AANHPI) through AANHPI Genetic and Genomic Education (AGE) project.
Aspirations and Limitations to Advancing Social Science Through Genomics Research
Assembling unified disease trajectories from sparse longitudinal molecular data.
Assessing HiFi Long Read Sequencing versus Whole Genome Bisulfite Sequencing and Methylation EPIC BeadChip Array: A Comparative Analysis Utilizing DNA Methylation Standards.
Assessing Risk in Complex Human Disease Using Polyexposure Scores in the Multiethnic Personalized Environmental Gene Study Cohort
Assessing and addressing the burden of VUSs within adult medical genetics practices
Assessing cell-type specificity of enhancer-promoter interactions in neurons.
Assessing the Demographics of Clinical Genome Resource Members: an initial step toward enhancing diversity in an international consortium.
Assessing the Diagnostic Odyssey in Pediatric Autism.
Assessing the Usage of Human Phenotype Ontology Terms in Facilitating Discovery of Disease Causal Genes
Assessing the contribution of rare untranslated region variants to human diseases using ~500,000 UK Biobank whole-genome sequences
Assessing the expression of Long Interspersed Nuclear Elements (LINEs) via long-read sequencing in diverse human tissues and cell lines
Assessing the functional effect of the Presenilin-1 G206A variant on age of onset of Alzheimer Disease in the Puerto Rican population
Assessing the functional impact of ASL missense variants and genetic interactions between them using high throughput yeast assays
Assessing the genetic and phenotypic spectrum of DNM1-related disorders in the landscape of neurodevelopmental disorders
Assessing the relative power of constraint metrics in variant prioritisation for rare-variant association testing
Assessing the stability of differential gene expression signatures across assemblies.
Assessing the underrepresentation of diversity in evaluating CYP2D6 genotypes: a study of 490,558 genomes in the UK Biobank
Assessing the value of 490,000 whole-genome sequences in drug target discovery
Assessing tissue-specific effects of rare and structural variants towards gene regulation with the EN-TEx personal genome resource
Assessing viral variant detection algorithms to improve characterization of gene therapy products and biologics.
Assessment of changes of mRNA isoform proportion after scaRNA knockdown.
Assessment of human duplicated genes in a complete telomere-to-telomere genome implicates novel paralogs in brain evolution
Assessment of potential loss of function variants in children with DS-associated congenital heart defects as possible modifying factors.
Assessment of the Impacts of Blood Collection Tube Types on Blood Acylcarnitine Determinations.
Association between APOL1 risk variants and progression from infection to sepsis
Association between Genetic Polymorphisms and New-Onset Diabetes in Korean Patients Treated with Statins
Association between rs1045642, rs2032582 and rs1128503 polymorphism of ABCB1 gene in Asian population and resistance to AEDs, a meta-analysis.
Association of Microsatellite Instability and gene expression in pathogenesis of Colorectal Carcinoma.
Association of OCT-1 gene polymorphism in type II diabetes mellitus patients from North Indian population
Association of TNFRSF1Bwith nonresponse to infliximab in treatment of ulcerative colitis.
Association of angiotensinogen rs699 SNP with pre-eclampsia in Lagos, Nigeria: Case-control study
Association of inferred global ancestry with cytogenetic subtypes in pediatric acute lymphoblastic leukemia
Association of mitochondrial DNA copy number with Blood Pressure Responses to Dietary Sodium and Potassium: The GenSalt Study (Genetic Epidemiology Network of Salt Sensitivity).
Association of prostate cancer candidate genes with overall and aggressive prostate cancer in men of African ancestry.
Association of rare functionally deficient SMPD1 mutations with Parkinson’s disease
Association of stromal transcriptomes with prostate cancer defined by TMPRSS2:ERG or PTEN molecular subtypes
Association of the rs17880135 variant of the SOD1 gene with breast cancer
Association of the rs2758331 variant of the SOD2 gene with breast cancer in a Mexican population
Association of the rs8720 variant in KRAS gene in patients with breast cancer of the Mexican population
Association of theFGFR4gene variant (rs351855) with colorectal cancer in a Mexican population
Associations between DNA methylation and cognitive function in early-stage breast cancer patients
Associations between Microbiome-Associated Variants and Diseases: Insights into the Role of the Gut Microbiome in Deep Vein Thrombosisin diverse populations.
Associations between genome-wide autozygosity and complex traits in an ancestrally diverse US cohort.
Assortative mating and parental genetic similarity drive pathogenicity of variably expressive variants
Assortative mating: Disentangling mate choice from population stratification
At scale enhancements to NCBI RefSeq Functional Elements, a growing resource for functional discovery beyond genes.
Atropine treatment rescues myopia in a mouse model of Marfan syndrome
Atypical clinical spectrum in NDUFS2-related mitochondrial complex I deficiency.
Atypical plantar hyperkeratosis, multiple pigmented nevi, facial dymorphism, skeletal abnormalities, and mental retardation.
Australia’s largest primary ciliary dyskinesia cohort: exploring the genetic background
Autoimmunity risk variants exert dynamic allelic effects on the chromatin accessibility of stimulated CD4+ T cells.
Automated High-throughput System to classify pathogenicSLC6A1variants.
Automated decision support for the clinical interpretation of copy number variants
Automated localization and quantification of RNA transcripts and protein clusters in single cells
Automated ultra-high molecular weight DNA isolation from various sources enables high-throughput optical genome mapping.
Automatic detection of complex genome structural variation across human populations and PsychENCODE brains implicate their associations with neuropsychiatric disorders
Automating next-generation sequencing: Ultra-long library preparation using a digital microfluidic system.
Automation and miniaturization of high-throughput qPCR for gene expression profiling
Autonomic nervous symptom may be a novel clinical manifestation of stress-induced childhood-onset neurodegeneration with variable ataxia and seizures syndrome caused by compound heterozygous variants in ADPRHL2.
Awareness and use of genetic testing in 2022 in the United States
B-allele frequency-based approach to detecting absence of heterozygosity enables detection of low-level mosaic events using optical genome mapping.
BAP1 tumor predisposition syndrome expert provider survey results.
BCL11B-related disorder is associated with a DNA methylation episignature.
BCM-GREGoR: A rare disease program to solve the unsolved with novel methods and analytical approaches.
BRCA Testing Utilization and Cost among Privately Insured Adults Aged 18-64 Years in the United States, 2014-2021
BTS: efficient Bayesian framework for functional evaluation of GWAS results against large-scale, heterogeneous functional genomics data collections
Baby Detect, the first European genomic newborn screening initiative: project spreading and analytical validation.
Bacterial diversity in the COVID-19 Metagenome: An AI-aided approach
Balancing cost and effectiveness in development of a sequencing panel for Pharmacogenomics variant identification
Barriers and Successes in Providing Genetic Cancer Risk Information to Families of Patients who are Deceased: Experiences of the Genetic Risk Analysis in Ovarian Cancer (GRACE) Study
Barriers to Uploading Genetic Testing Report to Online Patient Data Sharing Registry
Base resolution deep learning models decipher the regulatory basis of thyroid cancer.
Batch ClinVar Submission Support in ClinGen’s Variant Curation Interface (VCI)
Bayes factors for linear mixed models in genetic association tests
BayesKAT: A powerful Bayesian framework to detect combined phenotype-associations of genetic variant groups.
Bayesian genome-wide TWAS with reference transcriptomic data of brain and blood tissues identified 93 risk genes for Alzheimer’s disease dementia
Bayesian inferences of admixture dynamics in Brazil
Benchmarking enzymatic library preparation workflows in a PCR-free whole genome sequencing context
Benchmarking genotype-based demultiplexing algorithms in multimodal single-cell data
Best practices for perturbation MPRA-a comprehensive evaluation of sequence design strategies
Beyond genomics: Using RNA-seq in filter cards to unlock the clinical relevance of non-coding variation in splicing.
Beyond the exome: Finding answers for clinical exome-negative patients
Beyond the exomeUtility of long-read whole genome sequencing in exome-negative autosomal recessive diseases
Bi-allelic ACBD6 variants lead to a neurodevelopmental syndrome with progressive complex movement disorders
Biallelic FLVCR1 variants cause a disease spectrum from adult neurodegeneration to severe neurodevelopmental disorders through disrupted choline transport
Biallelic PSTK variants disrupt selenoprotein synthesis and cause a multisystemic disorder.
Biallelic genetic variants in the translational GTPases GTPBP1 and GTPBP2 cause a distinct identical neurodevelopmental syndrome.
Biallelic inactivating variants in DMAP1 underlie a syndromic neurodevelopmental disorder
Biallelic loss-of-function variants in CDK9 cause a CHARGE-like syndrome.
Biallelic loss-of-function variants in SLC13A1 are associated with skeletal dysplasia phenotypes in humans
Biallelic structural variations within FGF12 detected by long-read sequencing in epilepsy
Biallelic variant in TGFBR3 is implicated in human craniosynostosis.
Biallelic variants in ANKRD6 are a candidate cause for a rare multisystemic congenital anomaly disorder
Biallelic variants in ARHGAP19 cause a motor-predominant neuropathy with conduction slowing
Biallelic variants in BECN1, an autophagy effector, are associated with a rare neurodevelopmental syndrome
Biallelic variants in EPB41L3 underlie a neurodevelopmental disorder with seizures and myelination defects
Biallelic variants in GET4 cause developmental disabilities with a variable degree of phenotypic spectrum
Biallelic variants in IFT57 may cause Bardet-Biedl Syndrome.
Biallelic variants in SLC4A10 encoding the sodium-dependent chloride-bicarbonate exchanger NCBE lead to neurodevelopmental disorder
BigBrain: Genetic analysis of novel transcript expression in 13,061 human brain transcriptomes.
Bilateral hearing loss & mild dysmorphism associated to a DSPP gene variant.
Biochemical Screening of Intellectually Disabled Patients A Stepping Stone to Initiate a Newborn Screening Program in Pakistan
Bioinformatic identification of small X chromosome CNVs in 46, XY pregnancy loss cases suggest novel male lethal candidate genes.
Bioinformatics investigation of the MAGERS schizophrenia cohort data.
Biological Insight into Alzheimer’s Disease Sex Dimorphism Leveraging Predictive Clinical Models, Knowledge Graphs, and Colocalization Analysis
Biological and genetic factors associated with protein variation in five human tissues.
Biometric, Information Management and Sharing Strategy to success a Clinical Trial
Black and African American Connections to Parkinson’s Disease Study
Block LASSO for the genome: speeding up the training of polygenic scores in the age of whole genomes and costly computation
Blood DNA Methylation in Infants Hospitalized for Bronchiolitis is Prospectively Associated with Recurrent Wheezing and Asthma During Childhood.
Blood pressure and kidney-function traits as component causes of diabetic retinopathy: A two-sample Mendelian randomization study using the Million Veteran Program
Body mass index has a broad causal effect on fecal 16S microbiome and plasma metabolome variation.
Body mass index stratification improves polygenic prediction of type 2 diabetes in trans-biobank analysis.
Boosting Rare Disease diagnostic yield with Artificial Intelligence: Validation of the eVai “Suggested Diagnosis” framework
Boosting SNP discoverability: How the selection of traits affects the power of multi-trait GWAS
Both exercise intensity and training state influence the cell sources and magnitude of cell-free DNA accumulation in human plasma upon exercising.
Brain development mutations in the beta-tubulin TUBB result in defective ciliogenesis
Brain imaging endophenotypes for GWAS by unsupervised deep learning.
Break-induced replication mediated by inverted repeats underlie formation of pathogenic inverted triplications
Breast cancer drugs that inhibit TOP2, including anthracyclines, induce cardiotoxicity through shared mechanisms in iPSC-derived cardiomyocytes
Breast cancer family history in participants with BRCA variants: A study inAll of UsResearch Program.
Breast cancer prevalence and therapeutic complications in carriers of BRCA1/2 pathogenic variants after Salpingo-Oophorectomy risk in BRCA gene carriers: A Narrative Review Study
Breeding scheme affects mouse model for atypical type VI osteogenesis imperfecta withIfitm5/BRIL p.S42L
Bringing constitutional genome sequencing to a children's hospital.
Bringing genetic diagnosis to patients with hereditary sensory neuropathy through a comprehensive analysis of molecular and proteomic data.
Bringing multiplex assays of variant effect (MAVE) data into clinical variant interpretation
Build the coordinates-compatible, consensus human reference genomes.
Building National Responses to engage and empower Indigenous Australians in Precision medicine
Building a phenotype for ALPK3 loss-of-function mutation heterozygotes: Leveraging PheWAS to enhance reverse phenotyping studies
Building awareness, respect, and confidence about genetics through science education partnerships.
Building the ClinGen Pathogenicity Calculator Version 2.0 by leveraging ClinGen API Microservices.
Building the spectrum of ground truth genetic variation in a four-generation 21-member CEPH family.
Burden of GM2 gangliosidosis in Kuwait is driven by founder mutations.
C-STEM: A fast and powerful method for robust context-specific trans-eQTL mapping in multi context studies.
C2S2: Phenotype-driven clustering for discovery of disease subgroups.
CACNA1B gene mutation associated with typical Rett Syndrome patients from India
CACNA1E (c.5365-2A>G) de novo splicing variant as a potential mechanism of pathogenicity: a novel in silico study.
CAMK2, from mice to men and back: insights in the CAMK2 expertise center where clinicians and scientists work side-by-side.
CAPRIN1-linked neurodevelopmental disorder: understanding the role of CAPRIN1 loss on neuronal differentiation, neurogenesis, and proliferation.
CARTaGENE PheWeb: presenting GWAS and PheWAS results in a Quebec cohort
CARTaGENE reference panel improves genotype imputation in Québec
CD33 SNP rs2455069: A hypothesis that arginine/glycine substitution affects CD33 functional role in microglial activation.
CLCLSA: cross-omics linked embedding with contrastive learning and self Attention for multi-omics integration using incomplete multi-omics data
CNP variants cause non-syndromic high myopia in humans
CNVviewer: A web-based interactive visualization and annotation tool for accurate clinical diagnosis and reporting of copy number variations.
COLOC-Boost: A new gradient boosting informed colocalization algorithm improves the identification of functional disease causal variants
COVID-eQTL: Genetic dissection of COVID-19 susceptibility
CRAM compression: Practical across-technologies considerations for large-scale sequencing projects.
CRISPR-CLEAR - In-Situ Investigation of Genotype-to-Phenotype Relationship with Nucleotide Level Resolution CRISPR saturation mutagenesis screens
CRISPR-Cas9 knock-out model of NGLY1 Deficiency in Danio rerio (zebrafish) harbors mild phenotypic changes detectable with automated phenotyping
CRISPR-engineered disruption of POGZ in neuronal lines alters synaptic pathways through indirect epigenetic effects.
CRISPR-mediated allele substitution of a human genetic variant rs10071329 modulatesPPARGC1B expression and alters brown adipocyte phenotype.
CRISPR-targeting of scaRNA1 to investigate effects of mRNA splicing and heart development
CRISPR/Cas9 Engineering of 3D Genome Structural Variants: Unveiling Predictive Models of Oncogene Activation in Cancer Genomes
CRISPR/Cas9 depletion of high expression genes in human fibroblast samples increases the diagnostic potential for rare diseases
CRISPR/Cas9 gene-edited zebrafish model for Noonan syndrome.
CRISPR/Cas9-mediated knock-in of late-onset Alzheimer’s disease-risk variant, SHARPIN G186R, lessens the NF-κB pathway and accelerates Aβ secretion
CTSAC (p.Ser196Thr) as a cause of late infantile Galactosialidosis in a Hispanic American patient: a case report
CWAS-Plus: Estimating genome-wide evaluation of noncoding variation from whole genome sequencing data.
CYP2C19 Loss-of-Function Variants and Clopidogrel Efficacy in Diverse Individuals with a Recent Myocardial infarction or Percutaneous Coronary Intervention in the All of Us Research Program
Calibrated prediction intervals for polygenic scores across contexts in diverse populations
Calibrating CADD on a gene level for enhanced causal variant filtration
Calypso: a comprehensive platform supporting team-based, longitudinal genomic diagnostic care
Can Metformin inhibit abdominal aortic aneurysm progression? A Mendelian randomisation study.
Can first trimester prenatal samples be used to functionally assess Noonan syndrome variants?
Cancer predisposition in an Asian population of diverse ancestries
Cancer predisposition signaling pathways drive Beckwith-Wiedemann Syndrome Wilms Tumor development
Cancer risk in Simpson-Golabi-Behmel Syndrome: Case Series and Literature Review.
Cancer somatic mutations in miRNA genes affect miRNA biogenesis, miRNA level, isomiRs distribution, and effectiveness of targets regulation.
Candidate and genome wide pathway analyses of healthy aging in ‘Super Seniors’
Candidate genes identified in a large UK family associated with Familial Thoracic Aortic Aneurysm and Dissection (FTAAD) from a Whole Exome Sequencing (WES) study.
Candidate genes in a hEDS large UK Caucasian family from whole genome sequencing (WGS) data.
Candidate genetic modifier of Alagille Syndrome, THROMBOSPONDIN2, worsens the liver phenotype in a transgenic Alagille Syndrome zebrafish model
Cannabinoid 1 receptor (CNR1) 1359G>A polymorphism associated with psychotic adverse events in cannabis users with chronic pain
Cannabis and psychosis: Genetic pathway analysis.
Capturing Personal Health History and Family Health History in Genomic Risk Assessment Framework
CardioSeq: A prospective study investigating the impact of clinical genome sequencing in a diverse patient population with cardiovascular disease
Cardiometabolic drug response pharmacogenetics using EHRs from the UK Biobank
Cardiomyopathy, an uncommon phenotype of congenital disorders of glycosylation: Characterization of the spectrum and recommendations for follow‑up.
Cardiovascular measures from abdominal MRI provide insights into abdominal vessel genetic architecture
Carrier screening testing: Assessing advantages and limitations through a small consultant group.
Carriers of pathogenic variants in causal cardiomyopathy genes show incomplete disease penetrance in UK Biobank
Cas9-targeted Nanopore Sequencing to Quantify Native DNA Methylation and Genomic Instability of SVA Hexamer in X-Linked Dystonia Parkinsonism Ventral Forebrain Organoids.
Cascade testing with comprehensive multigene panels for hereditary cancer identifies unexpected findings in relatives
Cascade testing, reach, and acceptability or health system contact of at-risk relatives: pilot trial results.
Case Report: CAMK2B variant with tetralogy of Fallot, developmental delay, and growth retardation.
Case report of a novel FGFR2 gene mutation resulting in mild clinical manifestations of Crouzon syndrome.
Case report: A 3 year old female with skin hamartoma, facial masses, trismus and mosaic chromosome 22 trisomy.
Casebase analysis for two-phase failure time studies
Catalog and Genetic Architecture of Circulating Metabolites from Trans-Omics for Precision Medicine (TOPMed) Program
Cataloguing the landscape of short tandem repeat (STR) variants and their regulatory effects in 2,040 individuals.
Catch me if you can: Genome-wide fine mapping with knockoff e-values
Categorization of Alzheimer's Disease Risk Variants Identifies Tissue Shared and Tissue Specific Genetic Regulatory Effects
Causal association between celiac disease & autism spectrum disorder: A twosample Mendelian randomization approach.
Causal effect of recurrent mild malaria on dyslipidemia in African Ancestry Individuals: A Mendelian randomization study.
Causal effects of the plasma proteome on MRI-quantified liver fat within the UK Biobank.
Cavatica-based Variant WorkBench
Cell type specific network analysis in Diversity Outbred mice identifies genes potentially responsible for human bone mineral density GWAS associations.
Cell type-specific effects of common germline variation on gene expression and pancreatic cancer risk.
Cell-based functional assays for screening of drug candidates for Free Sialic Acid Storage Disorder.
Cell-free DNA as a Novel Biomarker for Disease Progression and Response to Treatment in Hutchinson-Gilford Progeria Syndrome.
Cell-free DNA metagenomic sequencing for pathogen detection and organ dysfunction monitoring.
Cell-specific roles of 5-methylcytosine and 5-hydroxymethylcytosine in early AD onset and progression.
Cell-type specific methylome-wide significant associations for adverse neonatal outcomes detected in blood.
Cell-type specific non-coding rare variant association tests reveal novel Alzheimer’s disease relevant functional annotations and loci.
Cerebral vasculopathy in Rubinstein-Taybi syndrome
Challenge to elucidate complex structural variants using long-read sequencing
Challenges and breakthroughs in unified digital laboratory systems in diagnostics and research core laboratories.
Challenges and solutions in variant analysis and therapy testing in the retinal dystrophies.
Characterisation of CYP2D6, CYP2B6, and CYP2A6 pharmacogenetic variation in African populations and development of the StellarPGx diplotype calling algorithm.
Characterisation of pharmacogenetic variation relevant to anti-tuberculosis drug metabolism across African populations.
Characterising polygenic risk for glaucoma in genetically admixed individuals
Characteristics of JAG1 and NOTCH2 variants in patients with Alagille syndrome in Japan.
Characterization of HLA variation in Quebec from whole-genome samples in the population-based CARTaGENE cohort.
Characterization of Native Allele Specific Methylation by Nanopore Adaptive Sampling Sequencing
Characterization of a chromosome 5q35 Alzheimer disease risk locus in African Ancestry families using short and long read whole genome sequencing
Characterization of a novel mouse model with 35 bp deletion in Champ1 gene and exploration of AAV gene therapy to correct phenotypic consequences arising from CHAMP1 mutations
Characterization of allele-specific expression in Alzheimer's Disease
Characterization of cell free DNA and circulating tumor DNA in a pediatric oncology cohort and implementation into the SickKids Cancer Sequencing (KiCS) precision oncology program.
Characterization of cell type RNA isoform composition and alternative splicing events in the adult human cortex.
Characterization of cytogenetically cryptic abnormalities in pediatric acute myeloid leukemia by optical genome mapping
Characterization of extracellular vesicles from fibroblast-derived osteoblast-like cells in patients with SGMS2-related osteoporosis.
Characterization of human neuroblastoma cultured cells lines used for interpretation of coding and noncoding variation in neurodevelopmental diseases
Characterization of long non-coding RNA and circular RNA in the aging human hippocampus across three library types.
Characterization of lower limb differences in individuals with Cornelia de Lange syndrome.
Characterization of mitochondrial phenotypes across 28 tissues among four genetically diverse mouse strains as a foundation for QTL mapping
Characterization of non-coding variants associated with transcription factor binding through ATAC-seq footprinting in liver.
Characterization of novel genetic variation in the major secreted airway mucins and associations with respiratory disease
Characterization of optimal protein quantification strategies for sensitive pQTL analyses in human blood plasma samples
Characterization of telomere length in Alzheimer's disease in the Midwestern Amish.
Characterization of the genomic landscape of a rat model of Alcohol Use Disorder: Initial findings
Characterization of the impact of NSD2 loss on the transcriptional and epigenetic landscape in the brain
Characterization of the mutational landscape of metastatic thyroid cancer via targeted next-generation sequencing
Characterization of tumor immune cell infiltration in breast cancer predisposition variant carriers identifies enrichment of tumor-associated macrophages.
Characterizing BIN1K358R SNP rs138047593 effects in 5xFAD plaque pathology of Alzheimer's disease using snRNA-seq
Characterizing Metabolomic and Transcriptomic Signatures in Kabuki Syndrome
Characterizing epigenetic aging in an adult sickle cell disease cohort.
Characterizing genetic variation in the regulation of the ER stress response through computational and cis-eQTL analyses
Characterizing novel fusion proteins in Acute Megakaryoblastic Leukemia (AMKL)
Characterizing novel in vitro systems for the investigation of human post-traumatic fibrosis.
Characterizing pleiotropic effects of schizophrenia and insomnia.
Characterizing proteomic and transcriptomic features of missense variants in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis genes
Characterizing selection signatures in coding and noncoding regions of 14,886 cancer genomes
Characterizing substructure via mixture modeling in large-scale summary statistics
Characterizing the Natural History of SYNGAP1, PCDH19, and CHD2 Disorders: Insights from the Ciitizen Database
Characterizing the genetic architecture of comprehensive inflammatory markers and their associations with obesity
Characterizing the impact of deleterious recessive alleles on genetic diversity across the transition between weak and strong selection.
Characterizing the interaction between sexual trauma and polygenic scores across mental health conditions
Characterizing the microbiomes of diseased and adjacent non-diseased ileum of patients with varying Crohn’s disease severity.
Characterizing the phenotypic abnormalities of a mouse model of Snyder Robinson-syndrome: a valuable tool for therapeutic development
Characterizing the role of the IGF2BP1-3 genes during human osteogenic differentiation.
Chimeric TNXB/TNXA gene mutations in hypermobile Ehlers Danlos Syndrome.
Chromatin accessibility QTL mapped in 138 liver tissue donors identify functional variants and genes at GWAS loci.
Chromatin interaction inferences based on the paired transcriptome and chromatin accessibility datasets identify candidate risk genes of autoimmunity.
Chronic Kidney Disease and Kidney Function Genome-Wide Association Study Reveals Population-Specific Associations.
Chronic mucocutaneous candidiasis due toCandida aurisin patients with a mildTP63-associated ectodermal dysplasia
Chronic recurrent pancreatitis: importance of genetic testing.
Circulating LINE-1 and MicroRNA Profiles in Plasma Exosomes of Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer Patients Correlate with Histological Subtype, Early Diagnosis, and Clinical Prognosis: Implications for Precision Oncology
Circulating cell-free methylated DNA reveals tissue-specific, cellular damage from radiation treatment.
Circulating metabolite levels associated with risks of psychiatric disorders: a Mendelian randomization study for biomarker and drug target identification.
Circulating metabolite levels vary by genetic ancestry in individuals of African ancestry.
Cis- and trans-eQTL TWAS of breast and ovarian cancer identify more than 100 risk genes in the BCAC and OCAC consortia.
Classification of Variants in Systemic Autoinflammatory Diseases using 3D Structures and Protein-protein Interactions
Classification of gene functional properties using evolutionary constraint.
Cleft palate probands are enriched for protein-altering de novo variants
Cleidocranial Dysplasia Family Case Report and identification of RUNX2 and SULF1 variants
ClinGen Glaucoma Expert Panel curation guidelines improve MYOC variants classification.
ClinPGx: An Integrated Single Resource for Pharmacogenomics (PGx)
Clinical Features of Individuals with Rauch-Steindl Syndrome due to NSD2 pathogenic variant.
Clinical Genome Resource Variant Classification and Curation Interface Workshops: Collaboration with Genetics Organizations in Low and Middle Income Countries.
Clinical Validation of AION: A Regulatory-Compliant AI platform for Variant Interpretation in Rare Diseases
Clinical and Genetic Features of 22 Neonatal Dubin-Johnson Syndrome in Japan
Clinical and genetic characteristics of 78 Chinese subjects with POU3F4-related hearing loss.
Clinical and genetic overlap between CHH and CLP
Clinical and genetic spectrum in a cohort of Lithuanian patients with limb girdle muscular dystrophy
Clinical and translational studies in in-vitro and an in-vivo mouse model of a unique HSPB8 associated vacuolar myopathy.
Clinical application of polygenic risk scores in obesity
Clinical consequences of a genetic predisposition toward higher benign prostate-specific antigen levels
Clinical exome sequencing efficacy and phenotypic expansions in Congenital Anomalies of Kidney and Urinary Tract (CAKUT)
Clinical exome sequencing efficacy and phenotypic expansions involving anomalous pulmonary venous return.
Clinical features of 110 patients with Angelman syndrome.
Clinical features of eight cases of neuronal intranuclear inclusion disease (NIID) in Kochi prefecture, Japan
Clinical findings of the developmental disorder by KDM5C variants
Clinical genetics and genetic counselling external quality assessment (EQA) provision.
Clinical interpretation of partial duplication and deletion involving neurodevelopmental genes
Clinical significance of cell free DNA screening positive trisomy 15: Cohort study and literature review.
Clinical usefulness of multi-gene panel testing in hereditary cancer analysis in Japan
Clinical utility of all types of medically relevant secondary findings: An observational cohort study
Clinical utility of deep-RNAseq in Mendelian disorder diagnostics
Clinical utility of exome sequencing in pediatric patients with extracorporeal membrane oxygenation for refractory lung disease
Clinical whole genome sequencing after non-diagnostic genetic testing identifies distinct types of genetic variants
Clinically Significant Copy Number Variants (CNVs) are associated with Common Fragile Sites at their breakpoints - A novel approach in the study of CNV biogenesis
Clinically actionable pharmacogenomic landscape of psychotropic medications in a Middle Eastern population.
Clonal and non-clonal genomic mosaicism in sperm impact the health of the next generation
Clonal dynamics of TP53 mutations in male germline cells and implications for inheritance
Clonal hematopoiesis, the aging genome and mantle cell lymphoma.
Clonal selection and diversification of somatic mutations in normal human endometrial epithelium
Closing the gap: Targeting complex medically relevant regions of the human genome
Closing the gap: overcoming the challenges of RPGR ORF15 sequencing, a target for gene therapy of X-linked retinitis pigmentosa.
Cloud-scale training and education in the NHGRI Analysis, Visualization, and Informatics Lab-space (AnVIL)
Cluster analysis identifies genes with distinct patterns of loss of function variants
Cluster based approach for deciphering complexity in individuals with neurodevelopmental differences
Clustered Mendelian randomization analyses identify distinct biological mechanisms that link adiposity to type 2 diabetes: towards precision medicine.
Clustering Algorithms for Rare Variant Association Studies: Generating effective therapeutic hypotheses for Complex Traits
Clustering of de novo noncoding variants in the genome in autism
Clustering of heritability beliefs across diseases, traits, and individuals.
Clusters of rare skeletal dysplasias in Brazil
Co-expression of subgenual anterior cingulate cortex transcriptomehighlights translational modifications of synaptic signaling during early development in Schizophrenia.
Co-occurrence of Congenital Disorder of Glycosylation Type IIm and Biglycan-Related Disorder in a 3-Year-Old Puerto Rican Male: A Case Report Emphasizing the Role of Biochemical Testing in Confirming Variants of Uncertain Significance
Coding and non-coding sequence variation across keratoconic cone surface
Collaborative Research Efforts Drive Therapeutic Advances for Free Sialic Acid Storage Disorder (FSASD)
Colocalization and Mendelian randomization unveil interactions between eGFR, lifestyle, molecular pathways, and diseases for improved CKD management
Colocalization of proteomics and blood pressure GWAS signals identifies potential novel drug targets for treatment of hypertension
Combatting cisplatin resistance through induced gene expression changes: Trichostatin A as a candidate.
Combined effects of genetics and oral contraceptive use on the risk of venous thromboembolism.
Combined whole-genome and Sanger sequencing analyses of GBA revealed a pitfall depending on the reference human genome sequence.
Combining GWAS and tissue-specific multiomic data to identify candidate human height genes.
Combining national health register data with biobank’s genomic resources enables selection of healthy controls for any disease.
Combining proteomics and metabolomics to identify signatures protective of neurological consequences of post-acute SARS-CoV-2 infection.
Combining research in humans and flies to uncover the genetic basis of ageing: A Transcriptome-wide Association Study identifies putative ageing genes in humans with experimental validation in flies.
Common Genetic Variants are Associated with Plasma and Skin Carotenoid Metabolism in Ethnically Diverse US Populations
Common and distinct patterns of acquired uniparental disomy and homozygous deletions between lung squamous cell carcinomas and lung adenocarcinoma,
Common and rare variant contributions to genomic architecture of atrial fibrillation using array-based genotyping and whole-genome sequencing data.
Common and unique genetic effects contribute to development of alcohol related liver disease.
Common genetic risk factors for scleroderma renal crisis in African Americans
Common variants are associated with congenital diaphragmatic hernia, a rare birth defect
Community Engagement
Community engagement in epigenomic and neurocognitive research on post-traumatic stress disorder in Rwandans exposed to the 1994 genocide against the Tutsi: lessons learned. 08/2022
Community engagement in the development of genomic medicine research: Enrollment experience from the BabySeq Project
Community-engaged research identifies genetic histories, basis of malaria resistance, and evolution of shorter stature in lower-altitude (
Comparative 3D genome analysis between neural retina and RPE reveals differential cis-regulatory interactions at retinal disease loci
Comparative RNAseq analysis for the study of motoneuron diseases in multi-omics approaches
Comparative analysis of computational algorithms for spatial transcriptomics using REVEAL
Comparative analysis of fine-mapping methods at loci with multiple association signals
Comparative analysis of molecular variation in the three-prime repair exonuclease 1 TREX1 across mammalian species and in human disease.
Comparative analysis of multiple single-cell RNASeq platforms
Comparative medical genetics to facilitate the interpretation of rare missense variation
Comparative study of the founder effect in different populations.
Comparing Breast Cancer Medical History between Participants surveys and Electronic Health Records in All of Us Research Program
Comparing HG38 to T2T-CHM13 and the need for new methods of annotation: non-syntenic genes, additional gene matches, and WASHC1 gone wild? Genomics. #itscomplicated
Comparing imputation quality in two distinct Latin American populations: Influence of super population exclusion
Comparing the effect profile of CETP in individuals of East Asian and European ancestries
Comparing uptake of pre-test genetic services and genetic testing via chatbot versus genetic counseling standard of care: findings from the BRIDGE trial
Comparison and evaluation of HLA calling from African Whole Genome Sequencing data in the UK Biobank
Comparison of 5' and 3' capture techniques for performing pooled CRISPR screens in differentiated neurons.
Comparison of Cytoscan Xon array with other existing molecular methods for detecting exonic copy number variants.
Comparison of ancestry calibration methods for colorectal cancer polygenic risk score to ensure equity in the clinic.
Comparison of blood group serology and whole genome sequencing identifies rare blood group alleles in Oman.
Comparison of structural variant calls from Oxford Nanopore haplotype resolved and telomere-to-telomere genome assemblies
Comparison of two DNA library preparation methods for mitochondrial DNA sequencing
Complex genetic architecture underlies craniofacial microsomia.
Compound Heterozygous Variants in PRDM5 Causing Brittle Cornea Syndrome Type 2 - A Case Report.
Compound heterozygous effects across common phenotypes in the UK Biobank.
Comprehensive Analysis of Low-Frequency Genetic Variants through Exome Sequencing in Familial Multiple Sclerosis
Comprehensive Genetic Evaluation of Witteveen-Kolk Syndrome in a 6-Year-Old Puerto Rican Girl: Identification of a Novel SIN3A Variant
Comprehensive analysis of genetic factors and subjective response to alcohol in Japanese youths.
Comprehensive characterization of V(D)J recombination using long-read transcriptome data
Comprehensive compendium of Joubert syndrome gene variants and associated phenotypes highlights genetic and phenotypic overlap in ciliopathies.
Comprehensive detection of trans-regulatory signal in pooled single-cell CRISPR screens
Comprehensive evaluation of CNV detection leveraging SV support on Illumina DRAGENTM Bio-IT platform v4.2 using high quality human genomes and clinical samples
Comprehensive functional characterization of SGCG coding variants accurately predicts pathogenicity in limb-girdle muscular dystrophy type R4/2E
Comprehensive genomic analysis of a trios family study with an index child diagnosed with autism spectrum disorders
Comprehensive genomics across cardiovascular diseases using DRAGEN
Comprehensive germline and somatic testing for precision risk-assessment for children with retinoblastoma and their siblings
Comprehensive identification of coronary artery disease-associated variants regulating expression in human vascular smooth muscle cells.
Comprehensive methylation analysis of 309 children born SGA targeting imprinting disorders
Comprehensive molecular epidemiology of spinocerebellar degeneration in Japan based on J-CAT, a nation-wide patient registry
Comprehensive polygenic prediction of respiratory diseases: a cross biobank multi-trait and multi-ancestry approach
Comprehensive serological profiling in juvenile idiopathic arthritis identifies novel viral and gene-viral interactions.
Comprehensive statistical analysis on the impact of missense mutations toward improving variant interpretation
Comprehensive variant analysis in clinical samples by cost effective whole genome sequencing.
Comprehensive, integrated long-read genomic, epigenomic, and transcriptomic characterization for solving the molecular basis of Mendelian conditions.
Compromised THOC2, a TREX mRNA export complex scaffold protein, leads to accummulation of R-loops, DNA damage and adverse neurodevelopmental outcomes in mice and men.
Computational algorithms for phenotypic patient matching to achieve diagnoses in rare disease cohorts.
Computational epigenetic analysis of colorectal cancer identifying Key regulators of genomic and transcriptional dysregulation with chip-seq method.
Concept and Awareness of Genetic Counseling among Intersex Individuals in Pakistan.
Considering Genetic Differences in the Study of Social and Behavioral Phenotypes
Consistent effect sizes of molecular quantitative trait loci observed across diverse African populations
Consistent long-term clinical benefit with govorestat treatment: results of the ACTION-Galactosemia Kids trial
Constructing and Evaluating Sex-Specific Obesity Predictive Genetic Risk Scores Using Taiwan Biobank Data.
Consultagene: design and experience of a tele-genetic academic platform supporting genetic consultation, patient and provider education, and research engagement.
Context-aware single-cell multiome approach identified smoking and cell-type specific lung cancer susceptibility genes
Context-specific chromatin accessibility in single human neurons expands the repertoire of regulatory neuropsychiatric risk variants.
Context-specific single-cell transcriptomic analysis in hiPSC-derived neurons informs novel gene regulatory mechanism in schizophrenia
ContextSV: A novel computational method for calling structural variants and integrating information across sequencing platforms.
Contextualizing postmortem bias for single-nuclei transcriptomic studies of human brain.
Contribution of Driver Genes in Classical Myeloproliferative Neoplasms (MPNs): Report from developing country
Contribution of common and rare variants to schizophrenia risk in East and South Asian ancestries.
Contribution of genetic ancestry to changes in the urinary metabolites of extremely preterm infants.
Contribution of rare genetic variants to aortic valve stenosis in Quebec French-Canadians.
Contribution of rare variants to heritability of a disease is much greater than conventionally estimated: modification of allele distribution model
Contribution of the X chromosome to complex traits genetics and sex differences and evidence for escape from X chromosome inactivation in height genetics
Convergent coexpression of autism-associated genes implicates early immune dysfunction
Convergent evidence from common and rare variant analyses implicating the immune system and late infancy cerebellar development in ADHD using a Hong Kong sample
Coordinated Epistasis reveals Symptom-Specific Polygenic Pathway Interactions in Major Depressive Disorder
Copy Number Variations (CNVs) Contribute to Malignant Tumors Development in Birth Defects Children
Copy number and non-coding variants leading to NMNAT1-related retinopathy
Copy number variant discovery from exome data in 637,229 individuals of diverse ancestries informs patterns of mutational constraint in the Genome Aggregation Database (gnomAD)
Copy number variants associated with neuropsychiatric traits differ in prevalence across ancestry groups.
Copy-number variants as modulators of common disease susceptibility.
Cord blood epigenetic gestational age acceleration and childhood blood pressure trajectories from 3 to 15 years of age
Core Planar Cell Polarity Genes VANGL1 and VANGL2 in Predisposition to Congenital Scoliosis
Coronary artery disease-associated splicing variants in vascular smooth muscle cells
Coronary heart disease and type 2 diabetes metabolomic signatures in a middle eastern cohort.
Correction for Collider Bias in the Genome-wide Association Study of Diabetes-Related Heart Failure due to Bidirectional Relationship between Heart Failure and Type 2 Diabetes
Correction of metabolic abnormalities in murine glycogen storage disease type Ia using a CRISPR/Cas9-based double-stranded DNA oligonucleotide insertional strategy
Correlation between maternal copy number variations and preterm birth in Indian women: A pilot study
Correlation of Interleukin-6 gene (-174G/C) promoter polymorphism &It Human leukocyte antigen DQ genotypes with genetic susceptibility of Type 1 Diabetes Mellitus in Kuwaiti children
Cost-effective, high-resolution whole transcriptome sequencing for gene fusion detection applications
Counteracting direct child and indirect parental genetic effects on childhood mental health
Cox proportional hazards mixed model enables accurate estimation of heritability for time to event outcomes
Craniofacial enhancers are enriched for de novo mutations in trios with orofacial clefts
Creating a Simulation Framework and Testing Methods to Adjust for Fine-Scale Population Structure in Rare Variant Analyses
Credible set is sensitive to imputation quality and missing variants
Critical role of GABAergic neurons in driving CGG repeat toxicity associated with Fragile X premutation
Cross-ancestry GWAS meta-analysis of keloids discovers novel susceptibility loci in diverse populations.
Cross-ancestry analyses identify new genetic loci associated with 25-hydroxyvitamin D.
Cross-ancestry genetic architecture influences estimation of heritability and genetic correlation in diverse populations
Cross-cohort eQTL analyses of 6,602 multi-ancestry TOPMed whole blood RNA-seq samples uncover regulatory relationships
Cross-platform Hi-C meta-analysis identifies functional insulators that actively block enhancer-promoter interactions
Cross-protein transfer learning using deep mutational scanning data substantially improves proteome-wide disease variant prediction
Cross-trait genetic analysis highlights causal effects of chronic pain on older-adult-onset asthma with evidence for mediation by neuroimmune crosstalk in the airways.
Curious but cautious: Patients’ preferences for all types of clinically actionable genomic sequencing incidental results
Custom genome assembly of KOLF2.1J and its benefit across neuronal cell types.
Cystic fibrosis risk variants confer a protective effect against inflammatory bowel disease in large-scale exome sequencing analysis
Cytogenomic characterization of breakpoints involving chromosome 8 in some Egyptian patients.
Cytosine-to-Uracil RNA editing is upregulated by inflammatory stimulation of monocytes
D-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria with enchondromatosis, severe vascular lesions and multiple cancers/growths,
DARC side of Genetics in Cancer - Consequences of Duffy-Null in Breast Cancer Disparities
DDINER: Drug-Drug Interactions classification Neural network model using Random walk with restart algorithm.
DGKk loss of function contributes to Fragile X syndrome and other intellectual disabilities.
DNA Methylation Association with Energy Homeostasis in a Hispanic Childhood Obesity Cohort
DNA Methylation Influences the Relationship Between Polysubstance Use and Physical Frailty Among People with Chronic HIV
DNA Methylation Signatures for sub-phenotype characterization in Kabuki Syndrome.
DNA Repair-related Heritable Photosensitivity Syndromes: Mutation Landscape in a Multiethnic Cohort of 17 Multigenerational Families with High Degree of Consanguinity
DNA language models: A new paradigm for predicting the impact of human genome variation
DNA looping linked GWAS variants to target genes and orthogonal integrative functional analyses substantiatedRAPGEF1role in melanoma susceptibility
DNA methylation GrimAge version 2.
DNA methylation changes associate with kidney structural injury in an American Indian cohort with type 2 diabetes.
DNA methylation correlates of chronological age in diverse human tissue types
DNA methylation in ABCG1 mediates an effect of lipoproteins on atherosclerotic markers
DNA methylation-predicted prenatal smoking exposure and adult lung cancer risk: a nested case-control study
DNA methylome analysis of trauma exposure in the human postmortem cortex
DNA structural information underpins mutation rate variations and regulatory site polymorphisms in the human genome
DUSP1 and DUSP16 are novel IBD genes implicated in the protection of the intestinal epithelial barrier integrity.
Data sharing in the GREGoR Consortium to support rare genetic disease research.
Data-driven trait heritability-based extraction of human facial phenotypes in genome-wide association studies
De Novo Germline Loss of the Distal End of the P-Arm of Chromosome 17 in an Individual with Intellectual Disability
De novo and inherited variants in DDX39B cause a novel syndrome characterized by neurodevelopmental delay, congenital hypotonia, and short stature.
De novo and selfish maternal variants in SYTL4, encoding a member of the synaptotagmin-like protein family, disrupt vesicle exocytosis and cause an incompletely penetrant X-linked neurobehavioral disorder with autism, epilepsy, and spasticity.
De novo decipherment of genetic architecture with language models
De novo dominant negative variants of IKZF2 cause ICHAD syndrome, a new disorder characterized by Immunodysregulation, Craniofacial Anomalies, Hearing Impairment, Athelia, and Developmental Delay.
De novo genome assemblies from two Indigenous Americans from Arizona identifies new polymorphisms in non-reference sequences
De novo germline variants associated with congenital heart disease and neuroblastoma: Evidence of pleiotropic genetic effects from 1,320 parent-offspring trios.
De novo mutations in bipolar disorder implicate genes involved in neurodevelopment and immunity.
De novo variant in TLK2: clinical evaluation & genotype-phenotype of a neurodevelopmental disorder
De novo variants in FRYL are associated with developmental delay, intellectual disability, and dysmorphic features.
De novo variants in PLCG1 are associated with neurological issues and other clinical features.
De novo variants in RYBP are associated with a severe neurodevelopmental disorder and congenital anomalies.
De-identification of clinical notes using open source software and commercial cloud-based NLP service together
Deciphering Developmental Disorders in Central African setting (DDD-Africa): clinical characterization and molecular study
Deciphering Transcriptional Regulatory Elements during Inhibitory Interneuron Differentiation using Deep Learning
Deciphering anti-ovarian cancer associated mechanistic regulatory pathways of indigenous Saudi Arabian plants using transcriptomic systems biology and bioinformatics approaches
Deciphering cell functions with micrometer precision, leveraging ultra-high-resolution spatial transcriptomics datasets
Deciphering disease-relevant cell types in prostate, breast, and lung cancers through integration of GWAS and single-nucleus RNA sequencing data.
Deciphering human brain cellular crosstalk in the context of neuropsychiatric disease.
Deciphering the current landscape of PGS prediction in diverse populations - phenome-wide evaluations of genetic risk in the biobank at the Colorado Center for Personalized Medicine
Deciphering the genetic architecture of autism spectrum disorder using chromosomal microarray and whole exome sequencing in patient-parent trios in India
Deciphering the molecular and cellular impact of epilepsy-associated GNAI1 variants.
Deciphering the molecular basis of a GRIA2 related neurodevelopmental disorder
Decoding Genetic Modifiers of Disease Variants in Large-Scale Biobanks
Decoding disease and HLA-specific regulation of T cell receptor repertoire in Parkinson's disease
Decoding pharmacogenomics of second-generation antipsychotic-Induced metabolic syndrome via biobanks and electronic health records.
Decoding the Genetic Landscape of Thyroid Cancer: Identifying Critical Single Nucleotide Polymorphisms for Improved Diagnosis and Prevention
Decoding the Genetic Underpinnings of Brain Connectivity: An Integrative Genomic, Transcriptomic, and Proteomic Approach
Decoding the genetic architecture of hearing acuity in a family-based design
Decoding the genetic complexity of immunoglobulin heavy chain locus: Unveiling novel variants and structural complexity with implications for human health
Decomposing polygenic adaptation of myopia on the sunlight exposure hypothesis.
Deconstructing the cancer-associated Pol III transcriptome.
Deconvoluting immunological, genetic, and clinical heterogeneity across autoimmune rheumatic diseases by cohort-wide immuno-phenotyping
Decrypting the Colon: Using single colon crypts to study regional somatic mosaicism
Deep coverage full-length isoform characterization and quantification using highly accurate long-read sequencing
Deep intronic GAA repeat expansions in FGF14 are a common cause of downbeat nystagmus syndromes.
Deep learning based semantic segmentation of adipose tissue histology samples.
Deep learning enables gene discovery of ultra-rare coding variants for rare diseases
Deep learning predicts brain cell type-specific regulatory variants for DNA methylation and improves fine mapping for psychiatric disorders
Deep learning to understand the genetic architecture and evolution of the human pelvis
Deep long-read RNAseq in human brain identifies de novo RNA isoforms, novel gene bodies, and complex isoform diversity for Alzheimer’s disease genes
Deep multilayer proteomics and multi-omics integration reveal molecular networks related to Alzheimer's disease in diabetic brains
Deep mutational scan of TAP2 reveals residues of functional importance for MHC-I cell-surface presentation.
Deep whole-genome sequencing of GTEx tissues reveals developmental patterns and somatic evolution
Deep-learning based bulk RNA-seq deconvolution method recovers cell-type specific signals.
DeepRVAT: Joint modelling of rare variant genetic effects using deep learning and data-driven burden scores.
Defining BSN: a novel and ultrarare synapse disorder
Defining cognitive phenotypes in Peurto Rican individuals for genetic studies using culturally sensitive norms
Defining critical MECP2 cis-regulatory elements towards identifying genetic candidates for male-biased autism
Defining the role of MeCP2e1 in Rett Syndrome symptom progression
Defining the spectrum of medically actionable variation in the HostSeq Biobank
Degree of uncertainty predicts emotional reaction to mock polygenic risk score results
Deleterious ZNRF3 germline variants as a novel cause of neurodevelopmental disorders with mirror brain phenotypes due to distinct domain-specific effects on Wnt/β-catenin signaling
Deletion 16P12.2 and small supernumerary marker chromosome (sSMC19) detected by array CGH in an adult patient with Goldenhar Syndrome.
Delineation of functionally important protein domains of CHD8 for assessment of variants identified in individuals with autism spectrum disorders
Delineation ofAMMECR1as a candidate gene for idiopathic short stature
Delivering on The Promise to Participants: DNA Results for All of Us
Democratizing Gene Therapy Education for Patient Communities.
Deriving computationally-defined latent phenotypes from medical images and genetic data.
Description New Cases of SOX17 Related Pulmonary Arterial Hypertension and Review of the Literature
Designing a hybrid implementation-effectiveness study of clinical genome-wide sequencing in Ontario, Canada: integrating both geneticist and non-geneticist providers
Detecting D4Z4 repeat contraction with 4qA haplotypes from short-read whole genome sequences
Detecting Perturbation Effects of Gene Expression in Single-cell CRISPR Screening
Detecting and adjusting for hidden biases due to phenotype misclassification in genome-wide association studies.
Detecting chromosomal aberrations with high sensitivity using an experimental model for mosaic copy number variation.
Detecting evolutionary adaptation and admixed ancestry in the Taiwanese Siraya people
Detecting late-onset disease causing variants in the genomes of Han Taiwanese people
Detecting recent natural selection in East Asia using ancient DNA
Detection and characterization of repeat expansions in patients with neurodevelopmental disorders using short- and long-read sequencing.
Detection and confirmation of structural variants in a human trio using three Next-Generation Sequencing technologies.
Detection of CFTR polyT/polyTG variations by an NGS-based method
Detection of Trinucleotide Repeat Expansions and Uniparental Disomy by Whole Genome Sequencing.
Detection of actionable variants using liquid biopsy samples for therapeutic approach.
Detection of de novo mutations in incomplete trio with missing parent information.
Detection of fetal RhD status on SNP-based prenatal cell-free DNA screening
Detection of germline copy number variation from whole genome sequencing on UG100: A cost-effective and robust approach.
Detection of intronic variants as the genetic causes of inherited retinal degenerations.
Detection of large inversions involving the Lynch syndrome gene PMS2 using Cas9-assisted targeted sequencing.
Detection of novel amylase haplotypes and insights into the genetic variation of amylase genes using optical mapping and long-read sequencing.
Detection of putative dilated cardiomyopathy causing germline variants and DNA methylation by Nanopore sequencing​
Determinants of clonal hematopoiesis expansion rate in UK Biobank andAll of Us Cohorts
Determining high-risk status using multiple types of genetic risk: Preliminary results from the eMERGE study.
Determining mechanisms of somatic and germ cell gene expression by KDM5C histone H3K4 demethylase.
Determining pathogenicity of Variants of Uncertain Significance in genes the Sonic Hedgehog Pathway via high-throughput experimental approaches.
Determining the molecular features of BAF-regulated chromatin loci.
Determining the role of TOP2B and p53 in mediating Doxorubicin-induced cardiotoxicity in iPSC derived-cardiomyocytes
Developing Indigenous Data Governance in the Australian genomics landscape
Developing a Machine Learning model for classifying ctDNA variants.
Developing a framework for precision therapy for rare and genetic diseases
Developing a morbidity gene panel for evaluation of kidney transplant recipients.
Developing a programmatic evaluation for programs focused on improving access to genetic services for underserved populations
Developing a shareable HLA imputation reference panel for the Arab population
Developing an approach to screening rare genetic diagnoses for amenability to bespoke genetic therapy development.
Developing and sharing polygenic risk scores for 4,206 brain imaging-derived phenotypes for 400,000 UK Biobank subjects not participating in the imaging study.
Developing prediction model for the age at natural menopause with the population-based Health Examinee cohort study
Developing the use of whole genome sequence for rare disease healthcare: The Genomics England Experience
Development and characterization of a novel TAFAZZIN-deficient iPSC derived skeletal muscle model of Barth Syndrome: a new tool to study muscle phenotypes in BTHS.
Development of Biobank Network for Research and Development of Precision Medicine in Japan
Development of a Korean imputation reference panel for imputing variants within the major histocompatibility complex locus
Development of a catalog of structural variants that significantly disrupt TAD boundaries in the human genome and affect gene expression and splicing.
Development of a comprehensive framework for understanding the scope of undiagnosed disease
Development of a human genetics-guided priority score for 19,365 genes and 347 drug indications
Development of a novel lipid nanoparticle-based adjustable gene therapy platform technology
Development of a rapid genotyping method for screening of RNF213 p.Arg4810Lys variant in patients with intracranial artery stenosis (ICAS).
Development of a region specific enrichment and long read sequencing strategy to phase de novo mutations in human genetic disease.
Development of a splicing modulator therapy for frontotemporal dementia
Development of a targeted, low cost and high throughput single molecule molecular inversion probe based sequencing assay for rapid diagnosis of lysosomal storage disorders in low-middle income healthcare settings
Development of an integrated pipeline for comprehensive population genetic analysis
Development of an myotropic adeno-associated virus (AAV) for VCP related myopathy
Development of bone targeted anti-TGFβ antibody for the treatment of osteogenesis imperfecta
Development of splice-switching small molecule RECTAS2.0 to treat cardiac Fabry disease caused by GLA c.639+919G>A Taiwanese variant.
Development of the ClinGen Rheumatologic Autoimmune Disease Clinical Domain Working Group (RAD CDWG) as an exemplar of complex disease curation
Development of the first epigenetic clock in tooth tissues: a better understanding of tooth aging.
Development of the first two Charcot-Marie-Tooth Disease Type 4C (SH3TC2) models using CRISPR-Cas9 Base Editing Strategies on human induced pluripotent stem cells (hiPSCs).
Diagnosing challenging cases: Eight years of experience with the Undiagnosed Diseases Network (UDN) at Baylor College of Medicine (BCM).
Diagnosing rare conditions in low-resource settings: the experience of the Differences of Sex Development clinic in the Democratic Republic of the Congo
Diagnostic Challenges: A case of acute promyelocytic leukemia with classical morphology and immunophenotype but cryptic PML::RARA rearrangement detected by RT-PCR
Diagnostic Utility of Genome-wide DNA Methylation Screening to Identify Molecular Causes of Genetically Unsolved Developmental and Epileptic Encephalopathies
Diagnostic Yield from Cardiogenomic Panel Testing for Inherited Cardiovascular Diseases
Diagnostic pitfalls of IGH/MYC positive Plasmablastic lymphoma resembling high-grade B cell lymphoma and Anaplastic large cell lymphoma-ALK negative.
Diagnostic whole exome sequencing in presumably autosomal recessively inherited retinal dystrophies in an Iranian population
Diagnostic yield of exome and genome sequencing after non-diagnostic multi-gene panels
Diagnostic yield of genome and exome sequencing in the ancestrally diverse CSER Phase II consortium is not associated with genetic ancestry in a variety of clinical settings
Diagnostic yield of genome screening in the general adult population
Diet dependent epigenomic and molecular adaptations in the aging retina.
Differences in cardiac mechanics among genetically at-risk first-degree relatives of probands with dilated cardiomyopathy indicate that variants of uncertain significance are clinically relevant: The DCM Precision Medicine Study.
Different but similar: Systematic investigation of proteogenomic variation in men and women and relevance for human diseases
Different variants of cardiac remodeling and genetic variant spectrum in patients with left ventricular noncompaction.
Differential alternative splicing analysis links variation in ZRSR2 to a novel oral-facial-digital syndrome
Differential cell-type-specific gene expression by type 2 diabetes status in human skeletal muscle
Differential chromatin accessibility analysis defines regulators of human coronary artery disease.
Differential gene expression analysis reveals genes underlying the transition to T2D in Hispanic/Latino individuals.
Differential gene expression analysis using RNA-Seq sheds light on the molecular etiology of chikungunya's chronic manifestations
Differential gene expression and regulation at single nucleus resolution in muscle of statin users
Differential gene regulation associated with alcohol use disorder in human nucleus accumbens and dorsolateral prefrontal cortex.
Direct and INdirect effects analysis of Genetic lOci (DINGO): A simple method to increase the power of locus discovery in GWAS meta-analyses of traits influenced by indirect genetic effects
DisCO-VG: Disease-specific optimization method for prioritizing variant-target gene pairs.
Disclosure of genetic test results for stroke among stroke-free West Africans
Discovering genes associated with Alzheimer's Disease via multi-tissue and cell type Transcriptome-Wide Association Study.
Discovering genes linked to both cognition and psychiatric disorders through analysis of 888,052 exomes
Discovering stimulatory state specific type 2 diabetes GWAS mechanisms with single cell multi-omics on iPSC-derived fibro-adipogenic progenitor cell villages
Discovery and functional validation of genes associated with muscular fitness and cardiometabolic traits.
Discovery and validation of novel insulin resistance loci implicated in adipocyte function.
Discovery of SVA-derived transcripts uncovers potential mechanism driving neurodegeneration in ventral forebrain organoid models of X-linked dystonia-parkinsonism.
Discovery of core genes for systemic lupus erythematosus via genome-wide aggregation oftrans-effects.
Discovery of high-impact variants in CARTaGENE whole-genome sequences from diverse populations of Quebec
Discovery of kidney function loci and MR-based associated causal effects of lipid traits in 80k African ancestry individuals
Discovery of microglia specific molecular drivers and targeted therapeutics for Alzheimer’s disease using network-based deep learning integration of human brain single-cell RNA seq data and real-world patient data validation
Discovery of novel signaling-to-transcription networks in T cell activation coupling base editor screens with single cell multiomics
Discovery of structural variants in the CARTaGENE cohort using whole-genome DNA sequencing
Discovery of target genes at lipid and metabolic disease loci in liver through a targeted CRISPRi screen.
Disease causing variants in several genes causing Bardet Biedl Syndrome
Disease-Aware Machine Learning Pipeline for Drug Target Prediction
Disease-related and recreational genetic testing in Australia: insights into associated health and sociodemographic factors from an analysis of 45,061 participants of the 45 and Up Study.
Disentangling clock-like mutation processes in germline and soma
Disentangling the effects of fat mass and fat-free mass on cardiometabolic risk by a genetic approach.
Disentangling the link between maternal influences on birth weight and disease risk in 36,211 genotyped mother-child pairs
Disentangling the shared genetic aetiology of type 2 diabetes and schizophrenia.
Disrupted DNA methylation signals at lung cancer diagnosis differ from smoking-related and pre-diagnostic signals: results based on one hospital-based and four population-based studies in Europe.
Dissect the genetic architecture of congenital vertebral malformation in the context of the developing spine
Dissecting Genetic Associations of Hypercholesterolemia in the Personalized Environmental Genes Study
Dissecting cis-regulatory interactions in the Major Histocompatibility Locus using single cell CRISPR/dCas9-based regulatory element screening.
Dissecting racial disparities in the implementation of pediatric whole genome sequencing as a first-line diagnostic test: insights from SeqFirst.
Dissecting the genetic and evolutionary sources of phenotypic variation in East Polynesians
Dissecting the genetic basis of cell-type specific immune activation across indigenous Cameroonians.
Dissecting the molecular mechanisms of BRPF1 in rare disease.
Dissecting the relationship between autism spectrum disorder risk and cognitive ability: Insights from spatial profiles of gene expression and copy number variants
Dissecting the role of pleiotropy in the genetic adaptation of Tibetans to high altitudes.
Dissecting the shared aetiology of immunologically-driven disease through genetic correlation analysis
Dissection of a known gene-physical activity interaction using metabolomics
Distilling causality between physical (in)activity and obesity
Distinct and overlapping metabolomic profiles across cardiometabolic diseases reveal converging points of disease etiology.
Distinct explanations underlie gene-environment interactions in the UK Biobank
Distinct methylation patterns in carriers and non-carriers of APOL1 risk alleles in African American and Hispanic/Latino populations: results from the Population Architecture using Genomics and Epidemiology (PAGE) consortium.
Distribution and frequency of BRCA1/BRCA2 variants in Turkish population with BRCA related cancers: A single center experience.
Diversion in endometrium adhesion pathway in Indian female with recurrent implantation failure (RIF)
Diversity and Representation of South Asian Genomes
Diversity in the All of Us Research Program: race, ethnicity, and genetic ancestry
Diversity of Y-chromosome haplogroup C in the Japanese population: Inference of its ethnic originhaplogroup C
Do Beliefs About Biologization of Race and Genetic Determinism Influence Views about the Ethical Acceptability of Using COVID-19 Host Genomics Information? A Survey of U.S. Health Professionals
Do Within Family Genetic Associations Reflect Genetic Nurture?
Do candidate genes increase clinical utility of hereditary cancer panels? When less is more
Do iron homeostasis biomarkers mediate the associations of liability to type 2 diabetes and glycemic traits in non-alcoholic fatty liver diseases: A two-step Mendelian Randomization study
Do the Benefits Outweigh the Barriers?: Clinical Implementation of Parent-of-Origin Genomic Analysis
Dominant OGDH mutations cause peripheral neuropathy with ataxia and optical atrophy
Dose-ranging pre-clinical studies of systemic AAV9 with codon-optimized reduced size ATP7A (cors-ATP7A) plus subcutaneous Cu-Histidinate in a Menkes disease model
Drastic weight loss alters expression of genes in immune pathways and induces changes in adipose cell-type composition dependent on sex and type 2 diabetes status
Driver project for advancing long-read de novo genome assembly methods in clinical research
Driving Diagnostic Advancements in Rare Diseases: Genomic Answers for More Kids
Drosophila model of de novo PHACTR1 variant highlights the role of exon 5 duplication in novel neurodevelopmental disorder
Drug repurposing for Alzheimer’s disease: targeting the genetics-enriched, neuropathology-associated SPI1 regulon in microglia
Drug-target Mendelian randomization analysis supports lowering plasma ANGPTL4 and APOC3 but not ANGPTL3 levels as a strategy for reducing cardiovascular disease risk
Drug-target Mendelian randomization revealed significant association of genetically proxied metformin use with increased prostate cancer risk
Durable HTT silencing using non-evolved dCas9 epigenome editors in patient-derived neuronal cells
Dynamic clustering of genomics cohorts beyond race, ethnicity-and ancestry
Dynamic effects of disease-associated variants on chromatin accessibility across human immune cells
Dynamics of mitochondrial DNA heteroplasmy in human normal cells
Dysfunction of the centrosomal protein, CEP76, is associated with syndromic ciliopathies.
Dysmyelination or demyelination: Investigating the role of SLC17A5 in myelination in a murine model of Free Sialic Acid Storage Disorder.
E-cadherin gene deletion and complete anodontia: A case report.
ETCHING: Ultra-fast Prediction of Somatic Structural Variations and Fusion Genes
EWAS of Gulf War Illness in the Gulf War Era Cohort and Biorepository (GWECB)
EXOC6B associated with spondyloepimetaphysealdysplasia with joint laxity type 3 plays an essential role in primary ciliogenesis and chondrogenic differentiation in vitro
Early commitment to neuroectoderm is reduced in Down Syndrome iPSCs due to dysregulation of a Primary Cilium-Autophagy-Nrf2 (PAN) axis
Early post-zygotic mutations are inherited by the germline and reveal its polyclonal origin in humans
Early use of whole exome sequencing (WES) informs lifelong medical management: case report.
Educational attainment and variation of blood DNA methylation among survivors of childhood cancer: A bidirectional causal inference using polygenic scores
Effect of ABCA1-R219K polymorphism in serum lipid parameters in patients under statin therapy visiting tertiary cardiac center of Nepal.
Effect of Polymorphisms in BCL11A, APOL1 genes and Expression of Foetal Haemoglobin on Sickle Cell Disease Phenotypes
Effect of artificial light modern lifestyle and their association with circadian gene expression
Effective recruitment and retention of a diverse pediatric population in a genome sequencing study
Effects of Assisted Reproductive Technology on genome-wide DNA methylation, imprinting and gene expression in human placenta.
Effects of Genetic Polymorphisms of Drug Metabolizing Enzymes and co-Medications on Tamoxifen Metabolism in Black South African Women with Breast Cancer
Effects of pathogenic variation in ADAMTSL4 on vascularsmooth muscle cell function relevant to spontaneous coronary artery dissection.
Effects of somatic and germline variants on coronary heart disease in Chinese population
Efficient Bayesian inference of genome-wide genealogies for large samples
Efficient computational pipeline for processing and analysis of single-nucleus transcriptome sequencing data
Efficient quantification of pattern similarity between spatial genomics and cell morphology
Eight years and 1.8 million variants later: A historical exploration of variant reclassification rates to evaluate the ACMG/AMP variant classification framework and understand the major contributors to resolving Variants of Uncertain Significance
Electronic phenotyping in the UK Biobank using the OMOP Common Data Model.
Elucidating ancestral differences in expression quantitative trait loci architecture relative to Alzheimer’s Disease Status.
Elucidating genetic susceptibility to orofacial clefting within a multi-ancestry cohort
Elucidating sex-specific gene expression at the single cell level in visceral fat.
Elucidating the clonal evolutionary dynamics of hypermutated tumours using single-cell whole-genome sequencing
Elucidating the genetic architecture of autism spectrum disorder compared to more broadly defined developmental disorder
Elucidating the genetic architecture of polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS)
Elucidating the genetic architecture of type 2 diabetes in 125,000 admixed Mexican adults.
Elucidating the genetic etiology underlying septo optic dysplasia (SOD).
Elucidating therapeutic pathways for disease through the integration of fine-mapping and genetic colocalization applied to 2,923 circulating proteins in 38,697 UK Biobank participants
Elucidation Of Tumor Clonal Diversity in An AML Drug Resistance Model Using A High Throughput Single Cell Genome Amplification Method.
Elusive pathogenic copy number variants detected by noncoding and off-target NGS reads in Mendelian conditions and in cancer
Empowering Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Communities in Genomics
Empowering Researchers: Web-Based Repository for Tertiary Analysis of Public Bulk and Single-Cell RNA Sequencing Data.
Empowering immunogenetic analysis with Biofilter 3.0 via enhanced annotation and filtering capabilities.
Endogenous expression of AGBL5 or reduction of TTLL5 expression rescues the cellular disease phenotype in AGBL5-/- human retinal pigment epithelium cells.
Engaging the Public on the Risks, Potential Benefits, and Ethical Responsibilities of Social and Behavioral Genomics
Engineering a synthetic humanizedRETmouse to model multifactorial Hirschsprung disease
Engineering and analysis of new mouse mutants carrying the novel triplications of human chromosome 21 syntenic regions to reveal the unique genotype/phenotype relationship.
Engineering poison exons for allele-specific silencing of the Huntington’s disease gene HTT.
Enhanced Breast Cancer Subtyping Integrating Complete Gene Expression Profiles and Genetic Ancestry
Enhanced Single Cell DNA Methylation Analysis Using Combinatorial Sequencing.
Enhanced detection of chromatin QTLs by MultiCAQ empowers GWAS variants interpretability.
Enhanced genetic diagnosis of neurological disorders through fibroblast-to-neuron transdifferentiation and RNA Sequencing: A comprehensive workflow for clinical applications
Enhanced promoter occupancy of SUMO1 bound proteins in AC16 cells during hypoxia
Enhancement of Trophoblast purity through removal of maternal cells using CD45 and CD56 cell surface markers.
Enhancer Analysis Identifies PAK6 and CHST14 as Regulatory Targets of Endometrial Cancer Risk Variation at the 15q15.1 Locus
Enhancer RNA m6A methylation in gene transcription control
Enhancer RNA transcriptomics-wide association study reveals an atlas of pan-cancer susceptibility eRNAs
Enhancer marks and Epstein-Barr virus (EBV)-encoded transcription co-factors (TcFs) are closely related to the more dominant genetic mechanisms operating among the 330 now known risk loci for systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) in two ancestries.
Enhancer-promoter compatibility and cellular context in disease-associated gene regulation
Enhancing Alzheimer's disease prediction and portability through integration of transcription wide association study and polygenic risk scores in diverse populations
Enhancing Asthma Pharmacogenetics through Endotype-Specific Associations
Enhancing Diagnostic Precision in Inherited Ocular Disorders: Insights from an iterative analytical approach.
Enhancing Fabry Disease Screening and Diagnostic Efficiency: Integration of Enzyme, LysoGb3, and Next-Generation Sequencing Testing
Enhancing Genome-Wide Association Meta-Analysis in Multi-Ancestry and Admixed Population for Tobacco and Alcohol Use Phenotypes using 3.2 Million Individuals
Enhancing Molecular Diagnosis of Mendelian Disorders: An Automated Phenotype-Genotype Database Using Large Language Models
Enhancing Scalability and Consistency in Translational Multiomics with an Optimized Fixed-Cell ATAC-seq Method.
Enhancing dbSNP and ALFA for Genomic Research: Commemorating dbSNP's 25th Anniversary
Enhancing genomic understanding in the Taiwanese population: Individual-level Structural Variant profiling and HLA genotyping by WGS.
Enhancing risk stratification of Acute Myeloid Leukemia with next generation cytogenomics
Enhancing the activity of YKL-39: investigating mutations and enzymatic properties.
Enhancing the power of NGS: Closing the diagnostic gap using short-read whole-exome sequencing.
Enrichment of AKAP11 consequential variants in bipolar disorder patients: Whole genome sequencing analysis.
Enrichment of incidental/secondary genetic findings of G6PD, TTR, TTN, RYR1, and BRCA2 in a cohort of 8667 African-American pediatric subjects.
Enrichment of melanopsin genetic variants in Delayed Sleep-Wake Phase Disorder (DSWPD) patients: A whole genome sequencing analysis.
Ensemble Polygenic Risk Score Development for Coronary Heart Disease in Middle Eastern Populations
Entwined African and Asian genetic roots ofmedieval peoples of the Swahili coast
EpiATLAS – a reference for human epigenomic research
Epigenetic Age Acceleration and Midlife Cognitive Function: Evidence from Observational Study and Mendelian Randomization.
Epigenetic age prediction using the Asthma&Allergy DNA methylation array reveals enrichments for immune pathways and accelerated epigenetic age among children with asthma
Epigenetic characterization of pseudogenes across human tissues
Epigenetic regulator Tet2 modulates ovarian dysfunction in a model of the Fragile X premutation
Epigenetic research contribution to public health: experience of an academic health center in Brazil during the COVID-19 pandemic
Epigenetic signatures of atopic asthma in nasal epithelium from African ancestry populations in the CAAPA consortium
Epigenome Editing Durability Varies Widely Across Cardiovascular Disease Target Genes
Epigenome-wide association study of exposure to arsenic provides evidence that exposure to arsenic causally impacts DNA methylation.
Epigenome-wide association study of incident type 2 diabetes in Black and White participants from the Atherosclerosis Risk in Communities (ARIC) Study.
Epigenome-wide association study of perceived discrimination in the Multi-Ethnic Study of Atherosclerosis (MESA)
Epigenomic and phenotypic characterization of DEGCAGS syndrome.
Epigenomic profiling of the infrapatellar fat pad in osteoarthritis
Epigenomic signature of major congenital heart defects in newborns with Down syndrome.
Epilepsy gene variants associated with seizure presentation in brain arteriovenous malformations.
Equitable Care in Carrier Screening
Equitable machine learning counteracts ancestral bias in precision medicine, improving outcomes for all
Equity and human rights perspectives on multigene panel testing for cancer: Health insurance coverage in Japan and Switzerland.
Establishing UK Biobank data augmented by electronic Medical Records for genetic association analyses on kidney function
Establishing a single-cell eQTL dataset of lung tissues from Asian women never-smokers to elucidate cell-type specific genetic regulation
Establishing predictive models for cystic fibrosis gene editing therapeutic development
Establishing the effect of reproductive factors on breast cancer risk: a multivariable Mendelian randomization analysis.
Establishment of Nepal's first Non-Invasive Prenatal Testing (NIPT) Service Laboratory
Establishment the transgenic pig model and exploration the molecularmechanisms of rare disease white sponge nevus
Estimating SNP-pair effect correlations across functional annotations.
Estimating association effects of Copy Number Variants using penalized regression with Lasso and weighted fusion penalties.
Estimating birth prevalence of Fraser syndrome 1 in Quebec.
Estimating common and rare variant convergence of complex traits and diseases across diverse biological pathways
Estimating family-to-offspring effects from genetic data of first-degree relatives
Estimating genetic prevalence of autosomal recessive disorders in the Korean population using 5,000 genome sequencing data.
Estimating heritability of gene expression from single cell measurements by modeling intra-subject variation with linear mixed models
Estimating relative effective dilution for 34 diseases in the Intervene consortium
Estimating the Extra-Pair Paternity Rate in Human Populations: A Case Study of a French-Canadian Population in Quebec
Estimation of carrier frequencies in Finnish population: utilizing the gnomAD database for ACMG recommended carrier screening genes and Finnish disease heritage disorders
Ethical considerations for returning sex chromosome aneuploidy as a secondary finding.
Ethiopian genomic diversity is shaped by migration, admixture, and adaptation to local environments but not by linguistic affiliations
Evaluating Gene Expression Profiles in Clinically Accessible Tissues for Prenatal Diagnostic Testing of Genetic Disorders
Evaluating Hi-C data using deep neural networks.
Evaluating a coronary artery disease polygenic risk score screening strategy in a diverse patient population at UCLA
Evaluating analytical validity of diverse cancer mutation calling pipelines of whole exome sequencing data
Evaluating anti-diabetic drugs for protection against Alzheimer’s disease by integration of genetics, genomics and drug-induced transcriptomic signatures.
Evaluating antisense oligonucleotides in spinocerebellar ataxia type 15/16.
Evaluating cardiometabolic risk factors and treatment efficacy in diverse British ancestries: Insights from a novel application of drug target Mendelian randomisation
Evaluating genetically-predicted causal effects of lipoprotein(a) in human diseases: a phenome-wide Mendelian randomization study
Evaluating integration of genetic risk into clinical risk prediction models of cardiovascular disease using polygenic risk score decomposition
Evaluating performance and applications of sample-wise cell deconvolution methods on human brain transcriptomic data
Evaluating somatic mosaicism in post-mortem Parkinson’s disease brains.
Evaluating the Two-Hit Hypothesis: Analyzing differences between germline and somatic cancer-associated mutational patterns in tumor suppressor genes
Evaluating the cardiovascular impact of genetically proxied PCSK9 and HMGCR inhibition in East Asian and European populations: a drug-target Mendelian randomization study.
Evaluating the contributions of rare and common variants in disease risk
Evaluating the effects of sex chromosome dosage on ASD risk and cognitive performance
Evaluating the genome-wide off-target edits mediated by CRISPR/CAS9 in human iPSCs
Evaluating the interaction of polygenic risk and child sexual abuse on longitudinal trajectories of posttraumatic stress disorder symptoms
Evaluating the mouse neural precursor line, SN4741, as a suitable proxy for midbrain dopaminergic neurons: A lesson in obtaining genomic rationale for the use of in vitro models of human biology and disease.
Evaluating therapeutic targets for Nonalcoholic Fatty Liver Disease using human genetic and phenotypic data from the UK Biobank
Evaluation of Genetic Counseling Services by Genetics Teams in Korea
Evaluation of X chromosome inactivation escape heritability across human tissues and cell type.
Evaluation of diagnostic utility of custom array CGH for identification of copy number variants in patients with epilepsy and epileptic encephalopathies.
Evaluation of epistasis detection methods in simulated quantitative phenotype data.
Evaluation of germline variants in retinoblastoma using non-negative matrix factorization
Evaluation of hereditary predispositions to hematologic malignancy in stem cell transplant: A case series
Evaluation of input data modality choices on functional gene embeddings
Evaluation of missing disease-causing variation in autosomal recessive conditions using long-read sequencing
Evaluation of the association between suicidality and polygenic risk scores for anorexia nervosa, suicide attempts, and suicidal ideation.
Evidence for reduced somatic T-cell receptor sequence diversity profiles in Alzheimer disease among Midwestern Amish
Evidence of potential natural selection in African Americans
Evidence that GWAS-derived genetic risk scores are not associated with vitiligo in African Americans, Hispanics, or Asians drawn from a clinical population
Evolution and disease associations of enhancers that regulate neural plasticity
Evolution of epigenetic marks: a neutral null model reveals the influence of natural selection and enables dissection of causal underlying pathways.
Evolutionary history of ancient African to Neanderthal admixture through the analysis of Neanderthal Homologous Regions
Evolutionary impact of transposon insertions in ancient humans revealed by machine learning toolgrnTea
Evolutionary meta-analysis of exomes identifies new Type 2 Diabetes risk genes and mechanistic pathways
Evolutionary patterns in historical genomes from Britain
Evolutionary routes of oesophageal adenocarcinoma genomes following whole genome doubling.
Ewing sarcoma with two fusion transcripts involving EWSR1, AP1B1, and ERG genes: Further evidence of EWSR1::ERG fusions arising from complex genomic mechanisms.
Examination of modifiable risk factors and risk of mosaic chromosomal alterations in the UK Biobank
Examination of the genetic architecture of nephrotic syndrome in large-scale biobanks replicates known and identifies 20 novel loci.
Examining Dry Eye Disease Phenotype in UK Biobank
Examining genotype-phenotype correlations in Cobalamin B-Type(cblB)Methylmalonic Acidemia.
Examining molecular responses to dietary selection pressures in mammals and humans
Examining the impact of natural genetic variation on meiosis and fertility in hybrid mice using single-cell chromatin accessibility and gene expression
Examining the link between 179 lipid species and 8 diseases
Examining the relative predictive accuracy of polygenic scores across ancestral populations
Existing and novel tumor associations in NF1: the DiscovEHR cohort experience.
Exome Sequencing Links the SUMO Protease SENP7 with Fatal Arthrogryposis Multiplex Congenita, Early Respiratory Failure, and Neutropenia.
Exome reanalysis in a cohort of patients with inborn errors of immunity
Exome sequencing for children with encephalopathy and severe COVID-19 infection
Exome sequencing from urinary epithelial cells - exploring the potential role in rare disease discovery
Exome sequencing leads, in a consanguineous family, to the identification of a novel gene, SLC22A24, for an autosomal-recessive non-syndromic hearing disorder
Exome sequencing of 1 million individuals identifies 211 genes associated with adult human height
Exome sequencing of a large Indian cohort of inherited diseases identifies actionable mutations
Exome sequencing reveals genes shaping the plasma and urine metabolome and connections to human diseases.
Exome-wide assessment of pediatric rhabdomyosarcoma suggests a novel susceptibility gene related to telomere function
Exon-level copy number variants detected by CytoScan XON microarray in patients with genetic disorders
Expanded Clinical and Neuroradiological Phenotype of RARS2-Related Mitochondrial Disorder
Expanded multi-ancestry genome-wide association meta-analysis of IBD identifies 85 new loci and implicates potential therapeutic drug targets
Expanded newborn screening using first-tier genome sequencing for highly penetrant early onset conditions to increase health equity for children
Expanding maps of archaic DNA variants within centromere-spanning haplotypes in complete, telomere-to-telomere (T2T) genomes of modern humans
Expanding the GENCODE geneset - addition of “non-canonical” ORFs to the Human reference annotation
Expanding the Phenotype of ZMIZ1 Syndromic Neurodevelopmental Disorder
Expanding the clinical reach of RNA sequencing: Evaluating testing outcomes of concurrent germline DNA and RNA genetic testing in a cohort of 43,000 individuals undergoing hereditary cancer testing
Expanding the clinical spectrum of COPB2-related disorder
Expanding the mutational spectrum in elastin-driven disease through a gene-first approach.
Expanding the neurodevelopmental phenotype of HIVEP2-related disorders
Expanding the phenotype of distal deletions in 22q11.2 deletion syndrome to include hemifacial microsomia: a case report.
Expanding the phenotypic spectrum of RAB11B-related disorder with a case report of the oldest reported patient.
Expanding the phonotypic spectrum of WDFY3-related disorder: first case with cerebellar hypoplasia.
Expanding the range of WNT signaling syndromes: a promoter variant in WNT9B is a candidate in a case with Femoral Facial syndrome.
Expanding the spectrum of germline pathogenic variants among Mexican patients with colorectal cancer
Experience with maintenance therapy of carglumic acid in patients with organic acidemia
Exploiting latent gene-environment Interaction in the analysis of binary traits
Exploiting pleiotropy of corneal resistance factor genetic associations.
Exploring Blindspots in Genetic Diagnosis of Leukodystrophies: Integrating State-of-the-art Methodologies and HiFi Long-read Genome Sequencing for Undiagnosed Pediatric Patients
Exploring Genetic Polymorphisms of Amino Acid Concentrations in a Community-Based Japanese Cohort of 10,000.
Exploring Molecular Interactions between SARS-CoV-2 Infection and Diabetes: Transcriptomic Analysis of PBMCs Reveals Converging Pathways
Exploring SETD1A LoF models to elucidate genetic etiology in schizophrenia risk
Exploring causal mechanisms of sex dimorphism at lipid associated loci.
Exploring cytokine pathways as potential determinants of multimorbidity: a Mendelian randomisation study
Exploring dual and triplets genetic variants in nucleotide excision repair-related genes: unraveling their impact on disease severity and structural consequences in patients with late-onset Xeroderma pigmentosum phenotype.
Exploring long non-coding RNAs at skin cancer risk loci
Exploring mass spec proteomics data using REVEAL: an easy-to-use bioinformatics platform for comprehensive analysis
Exploring pharmacogenetic relationships in Malaria and Tuberculosis: A Text-Mining analysis of biomedical literature and gene diversity assessment in African Populations
Exploring plateau and saturation of PRS accuracy in the multi-populations and multi-trait model
Exploring precision medicine through the lens of the LGBTQ+ community.
Exploring prevalence and cancer risk in adult individuals with pathogenic and likely pathogenic variants in RASopathy genes.
Exploring recent genetic sharing in the diverse population of Quebec using identity by descent.
Exploring the Genetic Landscape of Pregnancy-related Phenotypes and Complications through Low-Pass Whole Genome Sequencing in Over 100,000 Chinese Pregnancies
Exploring the Gut Microbiome, Gut Metabolites, and Metabolic Pathways in Dyslipidemia; A Metagenomic Approach
Exploring the Impact of Secondary Genetic Findings on the Psychosocial Wellbeing of Caregivers of Cleft Children
Exploring the Noncoding Genome with Chromosomal Structural Rearrangements
Exploring the Potential: Evaluating the Celemics WES panel for NGS-based Comprehensive Cancer Analysis and Precision Medicine
Exploring the Relationship Between Epigenetic Age Acceleration and Carotid Plaque Presence in a Multi-Generational Family Study of Dominicans.
Exploring the association between polygenic score of adverse drug reaction genes and disease risk
Exploring the common genetic factors modifying the germline de novo mutation rate
Exploring the evolutionary arms race between human PKR and poxvirus K3
Exploring the genetic background of facial variation in genetic disease to investigate the genotype to phenotype relationship, using achondroplasia as a model.
Exploring the genetic basis of Leukodystrophies in resource-poor settings through an in-house targeted panel approach
Exploring the genetic landscape of obesity through variant-level, gene-level, sex-specific, and pathway enrichment analyses
Exploring the genotypic and phenotypic significance of Polycystic Kidney Disease-2 (PKD2) variants in the UK Biobank using REVEAL
Exploring the implementation of preventive genomic screening in the primary care setting: Scaling suggestions from providers and the implementation team.
Exploring the non-invasive potential of miRNA 145 and miRNA 363 in Prostate Cancer
Exploring the population history of Khoe-San descendant communities in South Africa
Exploring the population-specific landscape of germline genetic drivers of neuroendocrine neoplasms in Mexican Mestizos.
Exploring the potential of readthrough compounds on nonsense mutation, R132* of MMACHC gene responsible for cobalamin C defect
Exploring the regulatory potential of the human genome.
Exploring the role of genome instability in male subfertility
Exploring the role of local ancestry in the distribution of pharmacogenomics variants in an admixed population
Expression CROP-sequencing identifies causal variants in cis-eQTL for genes associated with inflammatory bowel disease.
Expression QTL informed genetic risk score prediction in different genetic ancestries.
Expression QTL-based phenome-wide association study identifies a link between IL6ST and polymyalgia rheumatica
Expression analysis of circulating miRNAs and their target genes in the pathogenesis of chronic kidney disease patients of Pakistan.
ExtCodonIslands: A novel algorithm for extracting outlier regions in translational efficiency.
Extended chromosomes after ICRF-193 treatment in human peripheral blood lymphocytes: An aid in the study of the mitotic chromosome.
Extending Factor Models of Pleiotropy to Incorporate Epistasis Improves Prediction Accuracy in Complex Traits
Extending Pan-UK Biobank to rare variants through systematic gene-based association testing across continental ancestry groups in the UK Biobank.
Extension of Viviani’s theorem for the evaluation of the impact of population stratification on mating type frequencies
Extensive co-regulation of neighboring genes limits the utility of eQTLs in target gene prioritization.
Extensive profiling of transcription factors in postmortem brains defines genomic occupancy in disease relevant cell types and links TF activities to neuropsychiatric disorders
Extensive sex difference in regulatory elements in the developing human cortex and their plausible role in autism.
FGFR3 missense variant in a family with short stature
FXN protomutation alleles determine population susceptibility to Friedreich ataxia.
Face, fragrance, and fertility: Insights into developmental pleiotropy learnt from humans with Kallmann Syndrome
Facing the challenges of the diagnostic odyssey: diagnostic genome sequencing in 501 patients with rare diseases from Colombia.
Factor analysis adjusted for cohort overlap reveals genetic components shared across GWAS traits.
Factorizing polygenic epistasis improves prediction and uncovers biological pathways in complex traits
Factors Influencing the Portability of Gene Expression Imputation across genetic ancestries in TWAS
Familial Hypobetalipoproteinemia caused by concurrent protein-truncating variants in APOB and PCSK9.
Familial Thoracic Aortic Aneurysm & Dissection (FTAAD) candidate genes detection using Whole Exome Sequencing (WES) in a large UK Caucasian family.
Family history of developmental dysplasia of the hip is a risk factor for the progression of hip osteoarthritis.
Family study of the distribution pattern of polygenic risk scores in families with ulcerative colitis
Fast and accurate heritability partitioning using association summary statistics and sparse representation of LD
Fast and powerful mixed-model association analysis for genome-wide association studies.
Faster CYP2A6 activity increases chronic obstructive pulmonary disease and lung cancer risk by influencing smoking: A mediation Mendelian Randomization study in the UK biobank.
Feasibility and utility of multi-gene, pharmacogenetic testing among patients in primary care, community-based hospital setting.
Female neonate with bilateral microphthalmia, vermis hypoplasia, and foot deformities, new case report, case series, and phenotypic delineation ofAlkuraya-Kucinskas syndrome.
Fewer than 2% of all possible SPINK1 coding single-nucleotide variants affect splicing
Fighting genetics harms with education: a course on genetics, ethics, and society
Filtering Signal From Noise: Finding Potential lncRNA biomarkers in IBD Disease Pathogenesis
Finding chrY haplogroup in samples with ultra-low sequencing depth
Fine mapping disease-causing variants through principled integration of expression quantitative trait locus results via SuSiE
Fine-Mapping Million Veterans Program gwPheWAS Reveals Novel Variants and Elucidates Genetic Architecture in Diverse Populations
Fine-mapping causal cell-types of human diseases and disease variants
Fine-mapping causal tissues and genes at disease-associated loci
Fine-mapping causal variants using summary data with heritability-induced Dirichlet decomposition prior
Fine-mapping of functional traits using fSuSiE reveals local genetic influences of epigenetic and transcriptomic regulation in human brains.
Fine-scale population movements and geographic patterns of African Americans over the past 300 years revealed through IBD sharing and pedigree data from 1.7 million people.
FinnGen PGS Browser: a platform for polygenic risk score analyses and interpretation from a cohort of 400,000 Finns.
Finnish Y chromosome sequencing data suggests dual paths of haplogroup N1a1 into Finland
First GWAS based replication of candidate genes association with Adolescent Idiopathic Scoliosis in Northwest Indian population.
First GWAS of cystatin-C kidney function in continental Africans identifies novel loci & refines known associations
Fish oil supplementation modifies the genetic potential for blood lipids and cardiovascular disease
Five novel mutations in ribosomal proteins in 11 Diamond Blackfan Anemia (DBA) patients: An Indian outlook
For the case-only design how rare must a disease be to control type I and II errors
Four and a Half LIM Domains 1 variants: only a male matter?
Fragile X Syndrome: Evaluation of a documentary used to share genomic research findings in Cameroon.
Framework for detecting oligogenic patterns in undiagnosed clinical cohorts.
Framing the conversation about prognoses for children with genetic neurodevelopmental conditions
Frequency of 50 bp Ins-del and rs4817415 variant of SOD1 gene and their association with vitiligo patients
Frequency of genetic disorders associated with pseudoanodontia, revisiting classification, and suggestive management.
Frequency of known pathogenic variants across ancestries in the All of Us Research Program cohort
Frequency of pathogenic and likely pathogenic variants in genes associated with an increased risk for cancer in patients undergoing population based carrier screening.
Frequency of the rs8720 variant of the KRAS gene in patients with colorectal cancer from a Mexican population
From Gene Regulation to Metabolites: A Multi-Omics Framework for Investigating Airway Hyperresponsiveness in Pediatric Asthma
From Single Genomes to Pangenomes: Revolutionizing Genomics with Routine Telomere-to-Telomere (T2T) Assemblies
From Uncertainty to Clarity: Decoding the Molecular Consequences of Two KPTN Gene Variants for the Diagnosis of a Rare Neurodevelopmental Disorder
From benign to pathogenic and back: the effect of context on genetic variants.
From genomic blueprint to epigenetic portrait: Predicting CpG methylation from individual-level whole-genome sequencing data.
Functional analysis of ALG1 variants of uncertain significance
Functional analysis of LDLR variants using flow cytometry.
Functional analysis of pathogenic LAMB1 variants in the nervous system of Drosophila melanogaster.
Functional analysis ofMFSD3associated with dementia with Lewy bodies.
Functional annotation and gene mapping of gastric cancer
Functional assessment of human GLRA2-variants associated with neurodevelopmental disorders in Drosophila melanogaster.
Functional characterization and network analysis of regulatory regions using genome-wide functional screens and chromatin interactions
Functional characterization of non-coding CDKN2B single nucleotide variants identified in high-risk melanoma families.
Functional characterization of the developmental delay-associated 16p12.1 deletion using iPSCs.
Functional characterization of the mammalian genome.
Functional characterizationof eQTLs and asthma risk loci with scATAC-seq
Functional copy number alterations as diagnostic and prognostic biomarkers in neuroendocrine tumors.
Functional dissection of metabolic trait-associated variants in steady state and stimulated human skeletal muscle cells
Functional dissection of putative heart enhancers implicated in left ventricle function and cardiomyopathy
Functional evaluation of melanosomal pH regulation and melanin production for OCA2 variants found in patients with oculocutaneous albinism type 2
Functional filter for whole genome sequencing data identifies hereditary haemorrhagic telangiectasia non-coding SMAD4 polyadenylation site variants 5kb from coding DNA
Functional genomic analysis of rs73352950: A rare, major depressive disorder (MDD) risk variant in Mexican Americans.
Functional genomics studies in Xenopus can be used to inform clinical interventions in rare genetic diseases
Functional investigation of pleiotropic effects of an eQTL in the CELSR2/PSRC1/SORT1 gene cluster that associates with low density lipoprotein cholesterol levels and resting metabolic rate in an Indigenous population in Arizona
Functional validation of non-coding GWAS variants in inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) using high-throughput Lenti-MPRA.
Functional validation of variants in cardiac troponin T using stem cell-derived cardiac muscle bundles.
Functionally informed fine-mapping of glycaemic trait loci improves fine-mapping resolution compared to an agnostic approach.
Fundamental limitations on the transferability of polygenic risk scores across human populations.
Further Personalizing Medicine: Is There a Role for Comprehensive Genomic Evaluations for Hematopoietic Cell Transplantation Recipients?
Further refinement of the differentially methylated distant lung-specific FOXF1 enhancer in a neonate with alveolar capillary dysplasia
Further validation of association of bi-allelic variants in SLC25A10 with developmental and epileptic encephalopathy.
Furthering WGS/WES results: clinical implementation of RNA-based functional assessments of coding and intronic variants with potential loss-of-function
G4mer: mapping the human RNA G-Quadruplexes and genetic variants that affect them
G6PD genetic variants prevalent in British Africans and British South Asians: Under-identification of G6PD deficiency leads to delayed diagnosis of type 2 diabetes and reduced time to diabetes complications
GAIN OF FUNCTION PATHOGENIC VARIANTS INRIT1CAUSE CENTRAL CONDUCTING LYMPHATIC ANOMALY
GUIDE learns interpretable latent factors from genetic association studies
GWAS Meta-Analysis of Admixed Populations (GMAX) uses local ancestry inference to identify associated loci in GSCAN meta-analysis.
GWAS SVatalog: a visualization tool to aid fine mapping of GWAS loci with structural variations.
GWAS conditioned by SNP-specific shape effects identifies 11 loci underlying shape covariation of the cerebral cortex and cranial vault
GWAS meta-analysis on heavy menstrual bleeding in three large biobanks reveals 28 loci suggesting multiple contributing pathways
GWAS of 5,811 hepatitis B virus infection cases and 152,913 controls of Koreans with replication analysis of 171,822 of Japanese
GWAS of Torus Palatinus Reveals Several Suggestive Loci
GXwasR: A tool for conducting sex-aware quality control, association analysis, and testing various models of sex-dependent genetic effects in complex traits.
Gain-of-function MYCN causes a megalencephaly-polydactyly syndrome manifesting mirror phenotypes of Feingold syndrome
GenCompass: A cloud-enabled, accelerated, end-to-end workflow for analysis of large whole-genome sequencing (WGS) cohorts.
GenDiseak: Automated platform for human genetic variant interpretation based on ACMG guidelines.
Gene Expression Predictions from Enformer Show Improved Patterns of Cross-population Portability over Existing Methods
Gene Expression and Splicing QTL Analysis of Blood Cells in African American Participants from the Jackson Heart Study
Gene co-expression networks capture potential biomarkers of UTUC.
Gene expression analysis of miRNA 146b and miRNA 181b in Papillary Thyroid Carcinoma
Gene expression changes in the ossicles and long bones of the osteogenesis imperfecta mouse (oim/oim): an RNAseq pilot study
Gene regulatory networks constructed from CRISPR perturbations in primary CD4+ T cells elucidate the genomic basis of autoimmune disease
Gene-Environment Interactions and Congenital Heart Defects.
Gene-Environment Interactions and Their Impact on Nonalcoholic Fatty Liver Disease in Mexican Americans: Insights from south Texas.
Gene-Sleep Duration Interactions in the Genetic Architecture of Blood Pressure
GeneMatcher and VariantMatcher, tools designed for phenotypic and genomic data sharing
Genealogy-based Investigation of Epilepsy Genetics
Generalizability of Alzheimer’s disease plasma biomarkers of phospho-Tau and beta amyloid in individuals of diverse genetic ancestries
Generalizability of PRS313 for breast cancer risk amongst non-Europeans in a Los Angeles biobank
Generation and characterization of a novel mouse model for Free Sialic Acid Storage Disorder.
Generation and characterization of novel Clec16a knockout (Clec16aΔUBCmCAT+/+) mouse model where catalase overexpression is targeted to mitochondria (mCAT)
Generation of a functional genomics assay for the clinical re-classification of PMS2 missense variants of undetermined significance.
Generation of a multi-ancestry Leukocyte Telomere Length resource in the Million Veteran Program
Generative methods for Pediatric Genetics Education.
Genes and Cognition study, a recallable cohort to study Dementia/Alzheimer’s disease
Genetic Analysis of Segawa Disease Patients in Japan
Genetic Ancestry, Exome Sequencing and Classification of Variants Identified in Genes Associated with Inborn Errors of Metabolism
Genetic Associations with lupus in Sundanese population
Genetic Basis of Dilated Cardiomyopathy in Indian population
Genetic Blueprint of Congenital Muscular Dystrophies with Brain Malformations
Genetic Determinants of Placental Growth Factor Levels and their Association with Coronary Artery Disease Risk
Genetic Diversity of variants involved in drug response among Tunisian and Italian populations: implication for personalized medcine
Genetic Factor Structure of the Posttraumatic Stress Disorder Checklist (PCL-17) in the Million Veteran Program
Genetic Identification of New Chronic Pain Associations with the Central and Peripheral Nervous System.
Genetic Predisposition of DRD4 and Associated Metabolic Enzymes with Psychiatric Felonies in Pakistani Prison Inmates
Genetic Risk Factors for Late Bladder and Bowel Toxicity after Prostate Cancer Radiotherapy
Genetic Risk for Body Mass and Mortality in Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease
Genetic Susceptibility of Deletions or Excess Homozygosity to Head and Neck Cancer in Whole-Genome Studies.
Genetic Testing for Hereditary Cancer Syndromes in Algerian population: Recurrent Germline Pathogenic Variants, Ethical and Social Issues
Genetic Underpinnings of Non Syndromic High Myopia in South Korea: Focus on Early Onset High Myopia
Genetic Variants Associated with Iloperidone Response in Acute and Mixed Mania Associated with Bipolar I Disorder.
Genetic Variants Impacting Brain Structure Changes in Cognitive Decline: A Genome-wide Association Study.
Genetic Variants in GC and CYP24A1 are associated with Bleeding complications for Atrial Fibrillation Patients treated with Direct Oral Anticoagulants.
Genetic affinities of “White and Asian” and “Any other Asian” self-identifying UK Biobank participants.
Genetic analyses of the plasma proteome and metabolome in the same cohort from participants with African and European ancestry identify ancestry-specific type 2 diabetes risk associated molecular traits
Genetic analysis of Bardet-Biedl Syndrome: unraveling novel mutations and insights from consanguineous families
Genetic analysis of HLA polymorphism in tribal and non-tribal populations of Maharashtra, India: A pilot study.
Genetic ancestry-based case-control matching to improve power for trait-specific association analysis.
Genetic and Functional Activity Analyses of ADA2 in Patients with Deficiency of Adenosine Deaminase 2.
Genetic and embryonic transcriptomic analyses revealed the molecular basis of Mayer-Rokitansky-Küster-Hauser syndrome.
Genetic and environmental contributions to ancestry differences in gene expression in the human brain
Genetic and environmental drivers of telomere length variation in ethnically diverse Africans.
Genetic and epigenetic insights into aging of the human retina
Genetic and phenotypic association analyses of cardiometabolic traits in diverse African samples with whole-genome sequencing data.
Genetic architecture and fitness costs of meiotic recombination across 69,223 in vitro fertilized embryos
Genetic architecture of acute COVID-19-related diarrhea in 23andMe research participants
Genetic architecture of occupational creativity and extensive genetic overlap with psychiatric disorders revealed from genome-wide association analyses of 241,736 individuals.
Genetic association of ubiquitin specific peptidases (USPs) with the risk of Alzheimer’s disease
Genetic background of hereditary spastic paraplegias in the Czech Republic
Genetic basis of missing metabolites in the general population overlaps with inborn errors of metabolism
Genetic causes of neurodevelopmental disorders.
Genetic control of gene expression in the brain links to individual variability in neuroimaging phenotypes and disease.
Genetic determinants of host IgG response to COVID-19 vaccination.
Genetic determinants of metabolic profiles of multiple dietary patterns and type 2 diabetes risk
Genetic determinants of metabolic traits in middle-aged women predict cardiometabolic conditions across their life course.
Genetic determinants of spontaneous preterm birth in Indian women: Transethnic and population specific markers.
Genetic determinants of the human plasma proteome in a Chinese population reveal substantial ancestry diversity and identify new drug development opportunities
Genetic determinants of the progression of Lewy body pathology
Genetic diagnosis of different dyslipidemia in Iran.
Genetic disorders associated with dental problems in a pediatric orthodontic population
Genetic effects on chromatin accessibility and nucleosome positioning using snATAC data across 281 skeletal muscle biopsies.
Genetic epistasis between RET and ELP1 explains gastrointestinal motility dysfunction in Familial Dysautonomia patients.
Genetic etiologies of sex hormones differ between female late premenopause and postmenopause stages.
Genetic etiology analysis of 216 patients of infantile epileptic spasm symdrome with unknown cause
Genetic heterogeneity in type 1 diabetes risk and age-at-onset using diverse ancestry populations in the Type 1 Diabetes Genetics Consortium (T1DGC).
Genetic identification of Slavs in Migration Period Europe using an IBD sharing graph
Genetic influences of gene co-expression using individual-specific networks without single-cell omics
Genetic insights into causal genes and directionality through large-scale colocalization of metabolite and protein QTLs
Genetic insights into platelet counts and Gestational Thrombocytopenia during pregnancy: A Genome-wide association study of 100,186 Chinese pregnancies.
Genetic insights into the recent demographic history of Ireland and Britain
Genetic knowledge and acceptability of genetic risk communication among hematologic malignancy survivors
Genetic landscape of HLA in the Emirati population enabled by long-read Oxford Nanopore whole-genome sequencing.
Genetic landscape of developmental and epileptic encephalopathy in Mali
Genetic loci implicated in a meta-analysis of body shape in Africans
Genetic mapping power analyses for single-cell transcriptomics.
Genetic mechanisms at scale: Mapping chromatin dysregulation induced by hundreds of protein-coding variants simultaneously
Genetic modifiers in myotonic dystrophy type 1: Insights from a region with a strong founder effect
Genetic modifiers of FIG4 pathology
Genetic modifiers of seizures in fragile X syndrome
Genetic network rewiring between distantly related eukaryotic organisms.
Genetic pathways of temozolomide resistance in glioblastoma.
Genetic pleiotropy for kidney function and soluble receptor for advanced glycation end-products (sRAGE) using correlated meta-analysis in genome-wide association study and genome-wide transcriptome analysis: The Long Life Family Study (LLFS).
Genetic prediction of early adolescent chronotype: Effects of sex and pubertal status.
Genetic prediction of medication side effects: a genome-wide investigation of abnormal dreams on varenicline.
Genetic prediction performance of molecular traits is driven by their genetic architecture.
Genetic predictors of Venous Thromboembolism in Europeans
Genetic profile of early onset Alzheimer’s disease and unspecified dementia based on rare variants from pooled whole genome sequencing data
Genetic profiling and polygenic risk score performance evaluation in the multi-ethnic population of the Kahn-Sagol-Maccabi Biobank.
Genetic profiling of human hepatocellular carcinoma by using advanced techniques
Genetic re-assessment of BRCA-negative families in the Lynch Legacy Hereditary Cancer Biobank.
Genetic regulation of cell-type specific chromatin accessibility shapes the etiology of brain diseases
Genetic relationships between BMI, height velocity and pubertal timing in an Indigenous study population
Genetic return of results in a population-based cohort: Enrollment experience from the PopSeq Project
Genetic risk and changes in metabolomic risk over repeated measures.
Genetic risk of immune related adverse events in melanoma patients receiving ipilimumab.
Genetic risk score in predicting Age-related Macular Degeneration
Genetic risk stratification for primary open-angle glaucoma in Japanese individuals
Genetic study in African ancestry populations identifies 16 novel loci associated with lung cancer risk.
Genetic support for interleukin-1 inhibition in the treatment of pericarditis.
Genetic susceptibility to inflammatory bowel disease impacts on epithelial barrier integrity.
Genetic susceptibility to nonalcoholic fatty liver disease and risk for pancreatic cancer: Mendelian randomization
Genetic variants associated with immune cell population abundances in single-cell data.
Genetic variants associated with premature peripheral artery disease and surgical revascularization.
Genetic variants associated with type 2 diabetes mellitus among Filipinos
Genetic variants associated with within-individual gene expression dispersion at single-cell resolution reveal a new mechanism of genome regulation
Genetic variation for longitudinal change in anthropometric traits.
Genetic variation in a distal enhancer modifies cardiac transcription factor HAND2 expression and function
Genetic variation in the FMO and GSTO gene clusters impacts arsenic metabolism in humans
Genetic, transcriptomic, and proteomic perturbations linked to schizophrenia converge on neuron-specific protein interactomes of rare variant schizophrenia risk genes.
Genetically elevated abdominal fat and non-fasting triglycerides: implications for cardiovascular risk.
Genetically informed type 2 diabetes risk prediction: leveraging machine learning for personalized approaches
Genetically predicted efficacy and safety profiles of anticoagulant targets.
Genetically predicted telomere length is associated with adverse clinical and pathological outcomes of Alzheimer’s disease and dementia
Genetically regulated gene expression influences chronotype and sleep duration in diverse populations.
Genetically regulated gene-expression associates with human functional brain-network organization
Genetically-predicted gene expression identifies novel candidate genes for Polycystic Ovary Syndrome
Genetics and Epigenetics of Alcohol-Associated Liver Disease: Analysis of Single Nucleotide Variants and DNA Methylation change.
Genetics of Long QT Syndrome: iPSC-Derived Cardiomyocyte Approach
Genetics services are an integral part of interdisciplinary care of individuals with disorders of sex development.
GenoGAN: Synthesizing genomic data with stable deep generative networks for UK Biobank, Taiwan Biobank, and 1000 Genomes Project.
GenoPhenoCorr: Simplifying the Characterization of Genotype-Phenotype Correlations
Genome In A Bottle Mosaic Benchmark for HG002: Initiating MDIC’s Somatic Reference Sample Program.
Genome Integrity assessment by optical genome mapping for cell manufacturing/bioprocessing applications
Genome Wide Association Study accounting for local ancestry reveals new loci associated with Parkinson Disease in a Latin Americans
Genome Wide CRISPR Screen in aTUBB Hypomorphic Background Reveals Novel Genetic Interactions
Genome in a Bottle benchmarks in the era of complete human genomes
Genome sequencing from 50 autism trios identified novel candidate genes with mixed inheritance pattern in the Qatari population
Genome sequencing identifies second molecular diagnoses in individuals with Phelan-McDermid syndrome.
Genome sequencing of multiplex families affected by neuropsychiatric disorders
Genome sequencing uncovers a 8,8 kb deletion between L1CAM and AVPR2 in a boy with Hirschsprung disease and nephrogenic diabetes insipidus
Genome wide CRISPR screen identifies ceramide-1-phosphate transporter as a regulator of the CLEAR gene network
Genome wide association study (GWAS) of 110 putative fatty acids, eicosanoids, and related oxylipins in the Hispanic Community Health Study/Study of Latinos reveals shared and distinct genetic architecture
Genome wide association study identifies novel risk loci and provides new insights into genetic architecture of severe obesity.
Genome wide association study of Vitamin D deficiency in the Middle East with a relevant characterization of the novelSDR42E1gene
Genome-Wide Association Study (GWAS) by proxy (GWAX) of risk for Alzheimer’s disease and related disorders (AD/ADRD) with optical coherence tomography (OCT) retinal thickness endophenotype in the Tohoku Medical Megabank Organization (ToMMo) Eye .
Genome-Wide Association Study (GWAS) of Sepsis in BioMe Cohort
Genome-Wide Exploration of Positively Selected Loci and Their Association to Disease Phenotypes in 30,000 Individuals from Sri Lanka and Bangladesh
Genome-Wide Sequencing Implicates Monogenic Disruption of Vascular Integrity in Childhood-Onset Essential Hypertension
Genome-wide Association Study Identifies Genetic Variants for Blood Sugar Regulation in a Taiwan population.
Genome-wide Association Study of Diabetic Retinopathy Identified with an Electronic Health Record Algorithm in the Million Veteran Program
Genome-wide Association Study of Orofacial Clefts in Filipinos Identifies Novel Locus
Genome-wide Association and Mendelian Randomization Analysis among 120,671 Chinese Pregnancies Identifies Novel Genetic and Molecular Risk Factors of Gestational Diabetes and Glycemic Traits.
Genome-wide Implementation of Multi-population Joint Analysis Marginal Summary Statistics (mJAM) and its Applications in Polygenic Risk Score Models
Genome-wide analyses of machine-learning predicted brain aging identifies new genomic loci and causal cross-phenotype associations
Genome-wide analysis identifies genetic associations for multiple deep-learning-derived brain imaging endophenotypes.
Genome-wide analysis of radiation-induced somatic mutations in mouse long-term hematopoietic stem cells
Genome-wide analysis of the interplay between chromatin-associated RNA and chromatin architecture in human cells
Genome-wide analysis to assess whether heavy alcohol intake modifies the association between SNPs and pancreatic cancer risk.
Genome-wide annotation of fitness-linked regulatory elements
Genome-wide association analysis and Evolutionary Action Equation for the Fitness Effect of Missense Mutations of Systemic Sclerosis identifies new susceptibility locus and mechanistic pathway genes
Genome-wide association analysis and construction of polygenic risk score model for predicting paroxysmal atrial fibrillation using machine learning models.
Genome-wide association analysis identified a novel locus for epigenetic age acceleration
Genome-wide association analysis of sarcopenia-related traits in the CLSA cohort
Genome-wide association and HLA fine-mapping analysis of Hunner-type interstitial cystitis identify predisposing class II HLA variants.
Genome-wide association identifies novel etiological insights associated with Parkinson’s Disease in African and African admixed populations.
Genome-wide association studies categorized by class of anti-hypertensive drugs reveal complex pathogenesis of hypertension with drug resistance.
Genome-wide association studies for alloimmunization among patients with sickle cell disease.
Genome-wide association studies identify a susceptibility locus to pelvic organ prolapse in the Japanese
Genome-wide association studies in a large Korean cohort identifies novel quantitative trait loci for 36 traits and sheds light on the genetic architecture of complex traits
Genome-wide association studies of blood pressure phenotypes in 4,819 participants from Samoa and American Samoa.
Genome-wide association studies uncover novel genes, diverse disease mechanisms and druggable targets for juvenile idiopathic arthritis.
Genome-wide association studies with Japanese National Health Insurance System.
Genome-wide association study for metabolic syndrome reveals APOA5 SNPs with multilayered effects in Koreans
Genome-wide association study identifies 30 loci associated with obsessive-compulsive disorder
Genome-wide association study identifies candidate genetic variants associated with postoperative nausea and/or vomiting
Genome-wide association study identifies multiple novel loci associated with circulating metabolite phenotypes involved in energy metabolism and inflammation in type 2 diabetes: results from the Asian Indian Diabetic Heart Study (AIDHS)
Genome-wide association study of 30000 samples with bone mineral density in UK Biobank
Genome-wide association study of Gulf War Illness reveals polygenic architecture and links to multiple health conditions
Genome-wide association study of Long COVID in the Million Veteran Program
Genome-wide association study of Myasthenia Gravis uncovers new loci and gives first insights into the performance of polygenic prediction.
Genome-wide association study of an epigenetic signature of monozygotic twinning
Genome-wide association study of apolipoprotein A and B and lipoprotein (a) in the China Health and Nutrition Survey
Genome-wide association study of blood pressure traits in 140 000 Mexican adults
Genome-wide association study of emphysema- and airway-predominant deep learning subtypes.
Genome-wide association study of fibrotic disease across organs and systems.
Genome-wide association study of hip dysplasia in two Norwegian cohorts.
Genome-wide association study of modulators of glucocerebrosidase.
Genome-wide association study of transient myeloid leukemia in children with Down syndrome
Genome-wide association study reveals novel genetic signals that differentiates neuromyelitis optica spectrum disorder from multiple sclerosis
Genome-wide association, colocalization, and Mendelian randomization analyses of the three complement system activation pathways in a general population sample
Genome-wide associations of multi-organ biological age gaps in humans
Genome-wide characterization of de novo tandem repeat mutations in the human genome
Genome-wide chromatin conformation analysis in individuals of African versus European ancestry reveals ancestry-specific chromatin interactions. individuals of African versus European ancestry reveals ancestry-specific chromatin interactions.
Genome-wide data from medieval German Jews show that the Ashkenazi founder event pre-dated the 14th century.
Genome-wide detection of somatic mosaicism at short tandem repeats
Genome-wide dysregulation of R-loops in Ataxia Telangiectasia neurological pathogenesis
Genome-wide investigation reveals significant interaction of FURIN with maternal vitamin intake on orofacial cleft risk.
Genome-wide maps of regulatory enhancer-gene interactions across human cell types and tissues.
Genome-wide meta-analyses of cognitive decline across neurocognitive domains in older adults stratified by APOE genotype.
Genome-wide meta-analyses of cross substance use disorders in European, African, and Latino ancestry populations
Genome-wide meta-analysis identifies novel risk loci for uterine fibroids within and across multiple ancestry groups
Genome-wide meta-analysis of methylation quantitative trait loci from 1,721 placentas: characterization and implications in human complex disease.
Genome-wide meta-analysis oforbicularis orismuscle defects as a subclinical phenotype in orofacial clefting.
Genome-wide microRNA QTL mapping and integration with GWAS links brain microRNAs to neuropsychiatric disorders
Genome-wide polygenic risk score predicts future type 2 diabetes in women with history of gestational diabetes
Genome-wide polygenic score for inflammatory bowel disease is associated with diarrheal outcomes in Bangladeshi infants
Genome-wide prediction of dominant and recessive neurodevelopmental disorder risk genes
Genome-wide study identifies sex-specific risk loci for orofacial cleft disorders
Genome-wide survival study identifies three novel assocations between non-HLA donor-recipient mismatches and kidney graft failure
GenomeConnect: Patient completed health surveys can increase phenotypic data available in the public knowledge base
Genomes and epigenomes of matched normal and tumor breast tissue reveal diverse evolutionary trajectories and tumor-host interactions
Genomic Analysis of Plasmodium falciparum isolates across different altitudinal zones along the slope of Mount Cameroon.
Genomic alterations in lung cancer among never-smokers: An ancestry and sex-stratified analysis.
Genomic analyses of 281 consanguineous kindreds from the Middle East and North Africa facilitate the discovery of novel recessive neurodevelopmental rare disease traits
Genomic and Clinical Correlates of Plasma Urate in the “All of Us” Cohort
Genomic and transcriptomic influences on obesity-related traits in a high obesity-risk Hispanic/Latino population
Genomic dissection of enhancer context sensitivity and synergy
Genomic heterozygosity is associated with a lower risk of osteoarthritis.
Genomic history of Armenian population.
Genomic landscaping of Oral Cancer using Liquid Biopsy: search for an elusive target
Genomic profiling of group of Egyptian retinoblastoma patients
Genomic rare variant mechanisms for congenital cardiac laterality defect: A digenic model approach.
Genomic, Epigenomic, and Functional Genomic Characterization of Mouse Neuronal Cell Lines.
Genomic, clinical, and pathologic features of CHEK2 breast cancer
Genomics 2 Proteins portal: A discovery tool to link genetic screening outputs to protein sequence and structure
Genomics at scale with the NHGRI AnVIL
Genomics of recurrent pregnancy loss: contribution of known and novel lethal human genes.
Genomics return of results to participants in the All of Us Research Program
Genotype - phenotype identification in a case of genetically described (5p inversion deletion and duplication syndrome) developmental epileptic encephalopathy.
Genotype and phenotype analysis of individuals with nano-rare genomic variants considered for experimental antisense oligonucleotide therapy.
Genotype calling from expression data in Recount3.
Genotyping coding-VNTR in the MUC1 gene using k-mer frequency based alignment-free method allows genetic diagnosis of MUC1-related autosomal dominant tubulointerstitial kidney disease
Geography and study design in the biobank era: a population genetics-informed approach to the discovery of rare deleterious variants in human populations
Germline DNA repair pathway deficiency and clonal TP53/KRAS alterations in pancreatic cancer driving target therapy.
Germline Panel As Standard Method for Investigating Hereditary Breast and Ovarian Cancer Syndrome in Brazilian Supplementary Health System
Germline Testing for Lynch Syndrome:Are we there yet?
Germline genetic analysis of Lynch syndrome using 110K samples from patients with 23 cancer types and controls
Germline mutations in RAD51C and RAD51D genes observed in cancer patients in Singapore
Germline polygenic risk scores are associated with immune cell infiltration in breast cancer
Germline short variants detection from UG100 Sequencing Data
Germline whole genome sequencing of children with Down syndrome identifies novel variants associated with risk of acute lymphoblastic leukemia.
Germline-phased de novo assembly of K562 cancer genome from HiFi and HiC data imparts complete cancer genomic rearrangements at single-nucleotide resolution.
Global genomic pathogen surveillance: online training and pandemic preparedness.
Global metabolomics is a powerful tool for diagnosing rare diseases devoid of clear genetic causalities
Global patterns of genome diversity across the primate radiation
Global pharmacogenetics: An analysis of the 1000 Genomes Project.
Going the extra mile for rare diseases: Feasibility and challenges of setting up a pilot Undiagnosed Disease Program (UDP) in Iowa
Graph Attention Networks-based Predictive Model for Healthcare using EHR
Group-penalized exponential tilt model for identification of differentially methylated genes in epigenetic association studies
H3K27 demethylase inhibition reverses osteoblast transcriptomic signature and excessive osteogenesis in a mouse model of Weaver syndrome.
HLA heterozygote advantage and risk of colorectal cancer according to molecular tumor subtypes
HLA typing using capture-based next-generation sequencing
HOMA-B/-IR GWIS using fasting glucose and insulin suggests causal role of inflammation in insulin resistance
HOP POP: Evaluating the Effectiveness of Population Screening for HBOC and Lynch Syndrome in 25,000 Members of the Healthy Oregon Project
HORNET identifies a complex gene network underlying Alzheimer’s disease risk in diverse populations
HTRAnet predicts regulatory activity for sequences in diverse reporter assays and enables systematic comparative analysis of high throughput reporter assays
HUWE1-related neurodevelopmental disorder: expanding the phenotype.
Haplotype characterization using short and long-read sequencing data of a protective region of segmental duplication for Alzheimer disease in African carriers of APOEε4
Haplotype-resolved multi-modal analysis of cancer genomes using Oxford Nanopore sequencing.
Haptoglobin genotype calling and allele specific expression in AD
Haptools: a toolkit for admixture and haplotype analysis.
Hardy-Weinberg equilibrium test accounting for population structure and genetic relatedness in large-scale whole genome sequencing studies.
Harnessing HT-SELEX and CAP-SELEX data for predictive modeling of transcription factor binding.
Harnessing genotype and phenotype data from 3 million patients referred for clinical genetic testing for scalable, Bayesian variant interpretation
Harnessing the AI revolution: Application of Large Language Models (LLMs) for genotype refinement and imputation
Harnessing transcriptomic signals for amyotrophic lateral sclerosis to identify novel drugs and enhance risk prediction
Have economic evaluations of PRS considered the impact of uncertainty on patient outcomes and value?
Health and economic outcome analysis of patient journeys in a large seizure cohort: a case for rapid whole genome sequencing.
Height-related assortative mating revealed implications in long-term cohabitation: Tehran Cardiometabolic Genetic Study (TCGS)
Hematopoietic cell transplantation for inborn errors of immunity in the context of Lynch syndrome
Hemophagocytic lymphohistiocytosis gene variants in severe aplastic anemia and their impact on post hematopoietic cell transplantation outcomes.
Hepatic steatosis is reduced in PNPLA3 carriers on the WELL program: a very low carbohydrate diet, mindful eating, and positive affect online intervention
Heritability estimates for plasma biomarkers of Alzheimer disease in the Amish population.
Heritability, pQTLs, and environmental influence of proteins involved in age and cardiovascular disease using highly multiplex proteomics
Hermansky-Pudlak Syndrome: Exploring the therapeutic effect of gene therapy for HPS-1 pulmonary fibrosis
Hermansky-Pudlak Syndrome: Using AAV vectors to understand the development of HPS1 pulmonary fibrosis
Heteroplasmic pathogenic m.12315G>A variant in MT-TL2 presenting with MELAS syndrome and depletion of nitric oxide donors
Heterozygous Loss-of-Function Variants in SMC3: Lessons for the ‘Medium-Hanging Fruit’ Era of Mendelian Disease Gene Discovery
Heterozygous variants in ZFR cause neurodevelopmental alterations, intellectual disability, and microcephaly.
HiFi read sequencing reveals causative complex structural variants in a Japanese patient with severe mental retardation and microcephaly.
HiPhase: Jointly phasing small and structural variants from HiFi sequencing.
Hidden protein-altering variants influence diverse human phenotypes
High fidelity copy number detection from difficult sample types using an accelerated chromosomal microarray assay.
High frequency AAV integration into Cas9-induced DSBs: implications as a gene therapy vector in the brain
High incidence of germline mutations in DNA repair genes in bladder cancer
High resolution characterization of known pathogenic repeat expansion loci in over 1,000 long-read genomes
High throughput human sample prep and sequencing on PacBio Revio system
High-Resolution and Non-Invasive Prenatal Exome Screening
High-content microscopy screening for drug discovery in Cohen Syndrome.
High-density and scalable protein arrays are generated for comprehensive single-molecule proteomic studies.
High-dimensional causal inference from GWAS summary statistic data
High-resolution 3D reconstruction of spatial conformations for the human genome decodes the context-specific mechanisms of long-range genetic associations.
High-resolution karyotype reveals a maternally inherited complex chromosome rearrangement involving chromosomes 4p, 5p, and 12q with an inverted insertion and a 12q21.31q21.32 loss identified by SNP array.
High-throughput Allele-Specific Expression Analysis Can Detect Allelic Imbalance in Clinical Patient Samples as a Proxy for Quantitative Measures of Gene Expression
High-throughput DNA methylation BeadChip assay for population-scale EWAS studies.
High-throughput DNA methylation profiling in the ovarian cancer susceptibility genes promoters: assessment across a wide spectrum of blood- and tissue-derived samples from patients and healthy individuals.
High-throughput full-length isoform sequencing with long, accurate reads
High-throughput identification of deep intronic splice-disrupting variants in an undiagnosed rare disease cohort using a novel massively parallel minigene splicing assay
High-throughput measurement of regulatory SNPs with biased allelic enhancer activity effect for osteoporosis
Higher breast cancer polygenic risk scores (PRS) are associated with less aggressive tumors and longer survival.
Higher genetic risk for type 2 diabetes is associated with progressive decline of beta cell function.
Higher levels of chronic illness in the Australian Genetics of Bipolar Disorder Study are associated with genetic risk for reduced lifespan, increased BMI, and increased sites of chronic pain: a polygenic risk score analysis
Highly faceted scientific management model catalyzes large scale team science to help build the future of genomic medicine.
Highly penetrant normal-tension glaucoma risk allele maps to chromosome 12q13 and is associated with extracellular matrix dysregulation in a large family.
Host and microbial determinants of cutaneous lesions detected simultaneously via RNA-Sequencing: Biallelic pathogenic CORO1A sequence variant, Mycobacterium tuberculosis, and Staphylococcus aureus Identification.
Host genetics and gut microbiota in asthma among US Hispanics/Latinos: The Hispanic Community Study / Study of Latinos.
How Open Targets resources use Genetics data to facilitate target identification and prioritisation
How do patients with hereditary cancer syndromes navigate the healthcare system? A qualitative comparative study
How the phenotypes and genotypes affect irritable bowel syndrome (IBS)
How to conduct equitable genetics research to include underrepresented populations: A systematic review of best practices.
Human Accelerated Regions Regulate A Common Set of Target Genes during Human and Chimpanzee Neurodevelopment
Human Leukocyte Antigen-C and Haplotypes Associations with Resistance and Susceptibility to HIV-1 Infection among Serodiscordant Couples in Nigeria
Human Pangenome Reference Consortium Coordinating Center.
Human age- and sex-specific molecular phenomena inferred by leveraging public transcriptome data with machine learning.
Human body fat distribution genes affect adipocyte function via Wnt signaling and mitochondrial activity: a systems genetics analysis.
Human embryoid bodies reveal dynamic genetic regulation in diverse differentiation trajectories
Human genetics of COVID-19 mRNA vaccination efficacy.
Human genetics researcher/journal editor perspective
Human plasma metabolite outliers identified in Estonia Biobank knockouts
Human population genetics perspective
Hundreds of repeat polymorphisms influence splice site usage via diverse mechanisms.
Hyperammonemia, Hypocarnitinemia, Rhabdomyolysis and Pancreatitis in a Patient with Undiagnosed 3MethylcrotonylCoA Carboxylase Deficiency
Hyperproliferative lymphatic sprouting arising from EPHB4 mutations can be rescued through mTOR inhibition in a cell-based model system of central conducting lymphatic anomaly.
Hypertension predicts polycystic kidney disease 11 years ahead of time in PKD1 and PKD2 carriers, with a PPV of 71%
Hypothalamic variant-to-function analysis of the key childhood obesity chr12q13 GWAS locus implicates rs7132908 as a causal variant embedded within the 3'UTR of FAIM2.
Hypothesis-free Mendelian Randomisation Identifies New Metabolites Linked to Risk of ALS
Hypotonia: The Co-Existence and Patterns of Human Phenotype Ontology Terms in Neonatal and Pediatric Patients.
IBD-focused eQTL analysis identifies an increased rate of IBD GWAS colocalizations and novel target genes using diseased tissue compared to normal tissue eQTL
IBDMap: leveraging IBD mapping for validating and uncovering binary trait associations at biobank scale
IFIH1 gain of function variants in three individuals: The multifaced continuum of type I Interferonopathy
IL1R+ antimicrobial molecule program and heterogeneity study.
IPMI: Precision Medicine Genomics Project Advancing Integrated Polygenic Risk Score Development and Drug Target Discovery
IPSC-derived cerebral organoids as a neurological model of pediatric DPD deficiency.
Identification and Functional Evaluation of Autosomal Recessive Non-Syndromic Hearing Impairment Genes in Rwanda
Identification and analysis of cell-specific expressed genetic variants from scRNA-seq data
Identification and characterization of genomic variationsfrom population scale whole genome sequencing inIndia
Identification and characterization of the SNPs in the human ZP2 gene and their role in female infertility.
Identification and functional analysis of RRAS2 variants in patients with Noonan-like phenotype
Identification and functional characterization of rare mutations of the SYNGR family genes associated with schizophrenia.
Identification of 331G.A Polymorphism of PRgene and 397T.C and 351A.G of the ER alphagene as genetic predisposition markers for breast cancer management in yaoundé general hospital.
Identification of 39 Gene-Lifestyle interaction Loci for cardio-metabolic traits in Sub-Saharan African populations: An AWI-Gen study
Identification of African-specificNOS3variants associated with direct oral anticoagulant response.
Identification of Aurora A as a Novel Oncogene in Hepatocellular Carcinoma and targeting it with CRISPR/Cas9 system
Identification of CSNK2A1 variants in four unrelated Okur-Chung neurodevelopmental syndrome patients with microcephaly expands the clinical phenotypic spectrum of the disorder.
Identification of Contiguous Gene Deletions of SLC6A8, BCAP31, and ABCD1 in a Korean Infant Presenting with Hypotonia, Failure to Thrive, Hearing Loss, and Hepatitis
Identification of Novel Biomarkers in African American Prostate Cancer (Pca) Samples
Identification of Novel Candidate Risk Genes Causing Thoracic Aortic Disease
Identification of Novel Genetic Markers for Antipsychotic Response in Schizophrenia Patients: A Comprehensive Genome-Wide Association Study and Development of an Automated Treatment Decision System
Identification of RNA biomarkers and potential regulatory mechanisms and therapeutic targets for type 1 diabetic using a competing endogenous RNA regulatory network analysis
Identification of UBE3A substrates through an in vivo ubiquitin activated interaction trap (UBAIT) approach in Drosophila
Identification of a novel pathogenic SPTLC1 variant associated with juvenile amyotrophic lateral sclerosis born to an asymptomatic father with a mosaicism.
Identification of a robust microRNA signature for estimating survival time in patients with hepatocellular carcinoma.
Identification of an East Asian-specific variant associated with Lewy bodies dementia by genome-wide association study in Japanese subjects.
Identification of an elastin long-range cis-regulatory element.
Identification of bidirectional regulatory regions for FADS1and FADS2
Identification of causal genes for nonalcoholic fatty liver disease using single-cell eQTL analysis
Identification of cells, genes, and regulatory elements affecting human kidney function.
Identification of circulating epigenetic biomarkers for lesion burden in familial Cerebral Cavernous Malformation by whole-genome methylome profiling.
Identification of circulating protein biomarkers for childhood obesity using Mendelian randomization
Identification of de Novo Variants in Genes Involved in Ubiquitylation in Patients with Chronic Recurrent Multifocal Osteomyelitis (CRMO)
Identification of different genetic variants causing recessive neurodevelopmental syndromes with intellectual disability in Pakistan.
Identification of exposure- and genetically driven epigenetic associations with lifetime cannabis use.
Identification of genetic effects on seasonal variation in disease risk based on temporal patterns from 1,952 diseases in over 7 million individuals.
Identification of genetic variation associated with cell state regulatory networks in human induced pluripotent stem cells.
Identification of insulin trafficking and secretion genes by a targeted prime editing screen
Identification of medically actionable variation in admixed individuals from Mexico
Identification of microbiota features correlated with host lifestyle and molecular, biochemical, and immunophenotypic measurements in a deeply phenotyped Sardinian cohort.
Identification of multi-sample consensus open chromatin regions using ROCCO
Identification of multiple cis-regulatory enhancer variants underlying NOS1AP QT interval GWAS locus.
Identification of novel genes for Coloboma using single cell RNA-Sequencing
Identification of novel mutations in MCPH1 gene in Pakistani family with microcephaly
Identification of novel variants responsible for monogenic diabetes in Tunisia using Whole Exome Sequencing : impact on diagnosis and treatment.
Identification of optimal values, or sweet spots, for 69 blood metabolites, and genetic loci associated with deviation from optima.
Identification of pathological circRNA landscape signatures and pathways at a critical window for severe progression of Alzheimer's disease
Identification of plasma proteomic markers associated with polygenetic risk of type 2 diabetes and related complications
Identification of protective genome-wide DNA methylation profiles for asymptomatic Alzheimer’s Disease in postmortem brains.
Identification of rare de novo tandem repeat expansions in congenital heart defects using trio based whole genome sequencing
Identification of rare functional genetic variants and cell-type gene regulatory networks in Progressive Supranuclear Palsy
Identification of sex specific molecular features in glioblastoma
Identification of sex-related pharmacogenetic predictors of warfarin-related hemorrhage.
Identification of small volatile inhibitors targeting methylation mediated dysregulated ribonucleoproteins in lung adenocarcinoma
Identification of structural and copy number variations linked to cancer susceptibility in a pan-cancer cohort from the 100k Genomes Project.
Identification of suicide risk loci in eQTLs by whole-genome sequencing analysis.
Identification of variants underlying biparietal perisylvian polymicrogyria in Finnish families
Identify cell-type-specific and shared eQTLs in single-cell eQTL analysis by leveraging cell type similarities.
Identifying Cell and State Specific Genetic Effects on Gene expression through Comprehensive Analysis of Human Microglia Transcriptomics.
Identifying Sex-by-Ancestry Interactions of Asthma in African Descent Admixed Individuals
Identifying acute lymphoblastic leukemia risk loci in latino children via admixture mapping.
Identifying and interpreting lineage-specific fixed differences between modern humans, archaic humans, and non-human primates.
Identifying associations of rare noncoding variants with autism through integration of gene expression, sequence and sex information
Identifying causal genes modulated by rare regulatory variants in Alzheimer’s disease.
Identifying cell and tissue types where host genetic variation acts to impact gut bacterial abundance
Identifying common genetic susceptibility underlying co-morbid phenotypes using binomial regression.
Identifying deleterious noncoding variation through gain and loss of CTCF binding site activity.
Identifying demographic, socioeconomic, behavioral, and environmental factors contributing to disparities in the prevalence of sepsis
Identifying differential protein binding of Noncoding AMD risk-associated Single Nucleotide Polymorphisms
Identifying functionally methylated regions in breast cancer
Identifying gene regulatory mechanisms that explain PCOS GWAS signals
Identifying genetic variation in cancer using targeted long-read sequencing.
Identifying health disparities and differential healthcare usage within the biobank at the Colorado Center for Personalized Medicine using identity-by-descent clustering
Identifying individuals at risk for surgical supravalvar aortic stenosis in Williams-Beuren syndrome by polygenic score
Identifying key underlying regulatory networks and predicting targets of orphan box C/D SNORD116 snoRNAs in Prader-Willi Syndrome.
Identifying modifier genes in a PIGA-CDG pedigree with reduced penetrance
Identifying mutator alleles in humans based on a proxy genome-wide association study
Identifying non-coding causes of congenital heart defects: Abnormal RNA splicing with multiple novel isoforms as a mechanism for heterotaxy.
Identifying patients at-risk for breast/ovarian cancer within Kaiser Permanente Mid-Atlantic States - the evaluation of genetics referrals and testing from a FHS-7 best practice advisory alert
Identifying risk genes from copy number variations by statistical fine mapping
Identifying the Genes Responsible for Natural Genetic Resistance to Type 1 Diabetes in a Middle Eastern Cohort
Identifying the best performing Alzheimer’s disease PRS with the aim of risk prediction and the role of age in the genetic architecture.
Illuminating Prenatal Diagnosis: Enhancing Clinical Relevant Variant Interpretation via Transcriptome Analysis in Amniotic Fluid Cells.
Immune dysregulation and Lama1 upregulation in LAMA2-deficient Congenital Muscular Dystrophy: Insights from a mouse model and implications for gene therapy.
Immunolocalization and functional characterization of PFE1445C: a novel integrin alpha-like cell adhesion protein in Plasmodium falciparum.
Impact of GWAS meta-analysis heterogeneity on polygenic prediction accuracy.
Impact of Masking the Reference on Germline Variant Calling utilizing GPU Accelerated BWA, HaplotypeCaller and Deepvariant
Impact of SeqFirst in hospitalized neonates
Impact of bioinformatics pipelines and prediction tools on the detection of breast cancer susceptibility variants: application to the GENESIS case-control study.
Impact of environmental air composition on immune responses and cardiometabolic risks: insights from a Canadian cohort study
Impact of genome-wide rare copy number variants on autism spectrum disorders.
Impact of global and local ancestry on pharmacogenetic analyses in African American multiple sclerosis patients
Impact of panel size on minimum residual disease (MRD) assay performance.
Impact of parental autoimmune diseases on type 1 diabetes in offspring can be partially explained by genetic variants from HLA and non-HLA regions: a nationwide registry and biobank study
Impact of processed pseudogene insertions in genetic testing as cause of monogenic diseases: insertion in CLCN1 gene causing Myotonia Congenita
Impact of sex, age, and ancestry on Apolipoprotein E (APOE) risk for Alzheimer’s disease (AD): a pooled case-control of Alzheimer’s Disease Genetics Consortium (ADGC).
Impaired EPHA4 pathway and neurodevelopmental central pattern generators in idiopathic scoliosis.
Impaired iron and sphingolipid metabolism in MEPAN syndrome
Impaired lysosome by bafilomycin A1 induced TFEB pathway in colorectal cancer cells
Impaired nuclear glycogen metabolism affects liver homeostasis in Argininosuccinic aciduria.
Implementation of ONT long-read WGS in routine clinical genetic testing.
Implementation of a cardiometabolic genetic testing panel facilitates diagnosis, intervention, and preventative care in a predominantly Hispanic population
Implementation of clinical genome sequencing-based panel testing: Experience and results from over 400 patients with suspected inherited cardiovascular diseases
Implementing precision medicine on a nationwide scale
Implicit bias in genetics education and healthcare: Traditional textbook photographs elicit negative student responses while natural photographs are educational and stimulate positive quality of life perceptions
Improved Estimation of Functional Enrichment in SNP Heritability Using Feasible Generalized Least Squares
Improved imputation and association of rare variants using ultra-fast inference of ancestral recombination graphs
Improved late-onset Alzheimer’s disease risk prediction and stratification through a combined genetic risk score of common and rare variants
Improved multi-ancestry fine-mapping of gene expression data identifies more cis-regulatory mechanisms
Improved phasing and imputation accuracy using a harmonized resource of high-coverage diverse human genomes.
Improved technical noise correction in integrated functional genomics datasets with application to pathogenic variant discovery in rare diseases
Improved validation of conditions for variant classifications in ClinVar
Improvements in Disease Risk Predictions Resulting from a Novel System of Local Ancestry Informed Polygenic Risk Scores
Improving Diagnostic Specificity of Polygenic Risk Scores: A Methodological Approach Combining Large Biobank-Scale Data and Target Phenotype Cohorts with Limited Sample Sizes.
Improving Diagnostic Yields of Cancer Predisposing Variants in Diverse Populations
Improving G6PD variant interpretation through multiplexed functional assessment.
Improving Polygenic Scores accuracy in non-European populations for lifetime disease risk estimation
Improving access to exome sequencing in a medically underserved population through the Texome Project: A summary of the first 60 cases.
Improving genetic analyses of cardiovascular traits via Multimodal REpresentation learning for Genetic Discovery on Low-dimensional Embeddings (M-REGLE)
Improving metabolite QTL discovery using metabolite ratios
Improving methods for high throughput epigenomics studies.
Improving the genetic diagnosis of patients with Congenital Hypogonadotropic Hypogonadism through the integration of genomics and transcriptomics data.
Improving the imputation quality of the cohort in the Department of Veterans Affair’s Million Veteran Program (MVP) by leveraging the TOPMed reference panel.
Improving the understanding of psychiatric disorders using multivariate analysis of brain phenotypes
ImputeTrans: a transformer-based deep-learning tool for genotype imputation
In search of “hidden” variants in craniofacial microsomia: benchmarking ultra-low frequency mosaic variants in deep exome sequencing
In vitro effect of curcumin in combination with chemotherapy drugs in Ph+ acute lymphoblastic leukemia cells
In vitro model of gastrulation: Effects of alcohol on methylome, transcriptome and metabolome.
In vivo correction of human phenylketonuria variants via prime editing and base editing: A gateway to equitable treatment of inborn errors of metabolism
In-silico genotyping for Gaucher Disease using Gauchian: The good, the bad, the complex.
In-vitro evaluation of CRISPR/Cas9-mediated excision of the Spinocerebellar Ataxia 27b repeat expansion in FGF14.
Incidental/secondary ACMG and non-ACMG genetic findings in a multiethnic cohort of 16,713 pediatric patients.
Incorporating annotation stratified genetic covariance across complex traits to improve polygenic risk prediction
Incorporating external risk information with the Cox model under population heterogeneity: Applications to trans-ancestry polygenic hazard scores.
Incorporating functional information into ancient DNA based selection scans.
Incorporating genetic and environmental variables to understand disease risk in The Biobank at the Colorado Center for Personalized Medicine.
Incorporating information from relevant endophenotypes improves polygenic risk score prediction for asthma.
Incorporating local ancestry information to predict genetically driven CpG methylation from SNP genotype data
Incorporating short tandem repeats (STRs) improves genetic predictions of gene expression.
Increase the training dataset for disease-specific variant prioritization by combining SNVs in related diseases
Increased Rate of Return of Secondary Findings: Impact of the ACMG v3.1 Gene Lists.
Increasing clinical throughput: Automated DNA extraction of cultured cells.
Increasing the Power of the Sequence Kernel Association Tests (SKAT) with Common Variant eQTLs
Indian Siblings with Waardenburg Syndrome Living Beyond the Age of 40 Years: Diagnosis and Management
Inducible CRISPR interference in iPSC-derived neurons
Infectious disease as a trigger: The relationship between infection and immunological disease.
Inference and characterization of CYP2D6 whole gene deletions from a SNP array in the Michigan Genomics Initiative Biobank.
Inferring novel disease related cell states within and across-cell types in scRNA and scATAC seq data using condPCA
Inferring super-resolution tissue architecture by integrating spatial transcriptomics with histology.
Inferring susceptibility of multiple populations to TCDD using estimates of its interaction with aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AHR) variants.
Inferring the distribution of fitness effects from genetic variation with convolutional neural network.
Inferring the number of founding primordial germ cells in humans from de novo mutation data
Influence of autozygosity on complex disease risk across the phenotypic spectrum
Influence of germline variants of IGHV3-53 and IGHV3-66 genes on antibody responses to BNT162b2 mRNA COVID-19 vaccine
Influences of rare protein-coding genetic variants on the human plasma proteome in 49,736 UK Biobank participants
Inhibition of chemokine expression declines cancer cells proliferation and migration in vitro
Initial eQTL Discovery in Individual Pancreatic Cell Types from the Human Pancreas Analysis Program
Initial modified ACMG criteria for RPGR variant curation from the ClinGen X-linked inherited retinal disease gene Variant Curation Expert Panel
Initial screening of large >10 Kb deletions from long-read sequencing of 1,000 Emiratis
Initial sequencing and analyses of a new broadly-consented tumor cell line for development of a Genome in a Bottle Tumor/Normal Benchmark
Innovative non-viral delivery of CRISPR/Cas9 gene editing for neurogenetic disorder of Angelman syndrome
Insights from Cohesin Complex and Beyond: A single-center experience for cohesinopathy-related/like disorders
Insights from a systematic cohort of 145 families with epilepsy in the Indian population.
Insights from an exome sequencing study on ethnically diverse cohort of 18,994 patients with suspected rare Mendelian disorders.
Insights into digenic mechanisms through DIVAs, an Explainable-AI phenotype-driven approach for digenic variant interpretation.
Insights into genetics affecting brain morphology and the endocrine system using image-derived phenotypes from large-scale magnetic resonance imaging.
Insights into pathogenetic basis of KMT2D related hearing loss from mice and humans
Insights into the Development of BAP1 Mutant Uveal Melanomas Following Spontaneous Differentiation of iPSCs into a Self-Formed Ectodermal Multi-Zone primitive eye structure
Insurance Record-Based Analysis of the Burden of Disease in Patients with Galactosemia in the US
Integrate RNAseq gene expression and genome-wide genetic data to identify genes modifying age-at-onset of Alzheimer’s disease
Integrated Genomic Healthcare
Integrated Illumina and PacBio genome sequencing of Middle Eastern families identifies novel pathogenic variants underlying neuro-developmental disorders
Integrated ambient modeling and genetic demultiplexing of single cell RNA+ATAC multiome experiments with Ambimux
Integrated analysis of rare exonic variants provides additional insights into alcohol use disorder risk.
Integrated database for genes and conditions associated with pregnancy loss and perinatal death.
Integrated multimodal analysis of simultaneous single-cell profiling opens a new frontier for characterizing cell states.
Integrating 3D genome maps with vertebrate synteny blocks to identify genomic regulatory blocks for conserved traits
Integrating COVID-19 severity genetics with single-cell omics implicates alveolar type II cells and CD14 monocytes
Integrating EHR-based biobanks and GWAS summary statistics to predict the progression of autoimmune diseases from pre-clinical outcomes.
Integrating PacBio and Illimina producdes nearly complete phased human genome references for six trios from Middle Easten ancestries
Integrating genetic data in Trial Emulation: Exploring the potential of Polygenic Risk Scores.
Integrating genetic, demographic, and clinical variables to predict neurodevelopmental outcomes in children with congenital heart defects.
Integrating genetics, metabolomics, and gene expression to dissect the sphingolipid pathway in Parkinson’s disease.
Integrating machine learning tools into a cloud based NGS platform to facilitate molecular diagnosis of Mendelian disorders.
Integrating metabolomics with proteomics identifies novel drug targets for heart failure and atrial fibrillation.
Integrating multiomics data to identify African ancestry-informative markers acting as eQTLs in breast cancer
Integrating phenome and gene level approaches to identify genetic associations with glaucoma
Integrating polygenic scores and long-read genome sequencing to identify clinically-relevant structural variants in rare diseases
Integration of 3D human stem cell models derived from post-mortem tissue and statistical genomics to guide schizophrenia therapeutic development
Integration of Gene-Level Annotation and Visualization in the Updated Functional Annotation of Variants Online Resource (FAVOR)
Integration of Genomics and Epigenetics Data IdentifyNovel Variants for Isolated Cleft Palate.
Integration of Large-scale Proteomics and Genomics Data to Discover Risk Proteins in Human Cancers
Integration of cerebrospinal fluid pQTL and GWAS prioritizes novel candidate genes involved in Alzheimer’s disease
Integration of genetics and proteomics at scale yields novel insights on the underpinnings of asthma risk and heterogeneity
Integration of genomic and transcriptomic data for rare disease diagnosis.
Integration of genomic sequencing and metabolomic screening for inborn errors of GABA metabolism highlight use of blood-based biomarkers for early diagnosis and access to care across populations
Integration of genomic testing for evaluation of a cohort of 600 families with neurodevelopmental disorders from India.
Integration of label-free, interpretable image features with spatial molecular profiles from spatial transcriptomics
Integration of multi-omic data to investigate the pathogenesis of early onset Parkinsonism.
Integration of phenome-wide time-to-event modeling with genetic colocalization results for 2,941 plasma proteins and 310 diseases in 44,896 UK Biobank participants
Integration of polygenic risk scores with clinical factors improves 10-year risk prediction of coronary artery disease
Integration of protein-disease associations with Mendelian randomization reveals potential drug targets and disease biomarkers in UK Biobank Pharma Proteomics Project (UKB-PPP)
Integrative Analysis of Cell-Specific Human Endogenous Retrovirus Expression and Host Gene Expression Identifies Associations with Clinical Phenotypes in Systemic Lupus Erythematosus.
Integrative Analysis of miRNA and mRNA (MIMR): a web tool for identification of hidden pathological mechanisms
Integrative analysis of RNA-Seq and microarray data for identification of molecular networks and potential biomarkers associated with adverse effects of UVB exposure on the Skin.
Integrative analysis of UK Biobank proteomics data with autoimmune disease GWAS reveals complex causal relationships
Integrative analysis of a multi-ancestry GWAS of 2.5 million individuals with multiple omics and quantitative trait datasets identifies effector transcripts, proteins, and metabolites for 528 type 2 diabetes loci.
Integrative analysis of genetic studies and gene co-expression patterns highlights shared and distinct transcriptional mechanisms associated with asthma, COPD and asthma-COPD overlap (ACO) syndrome.
Integrative analysis of multi-omics data identifies PSMB9 as a gene responsible for TNF inhibitor response in patients with rheumatoid arthritis.
Integrative analysis of rare structural variants from long and short read sequencing and transcriptomic signals reveals novel determinants of undiagnosed mendelian disease.
Integrative analysis of the colonic transcriptome and colonoscopy-based diverticula enumeration unveils diverticulosis-specific causal genes
Integrative analysis of transcriptome dynamics during human craniofacial development identifies novel candidate disease genes
Integrative approach to reveal adverse impacts of butylparaben in homologous human genes from Daphnia magna via BLAST and network analysis.
Integrative multi-omics approach for improving causal gene identification
Integrative network analysis identifies miRNA signatures for neuropathology and cognition in Alzheimer's disease
Integrative transcriptomic network analysis of human iPSC-derived osteogenic differentiation identifies KLF16 as a key regulator of bone formation.
Integrator complex and gene expression dysregulation in schizophrenia and intellectual disability.
Intentionally degenerate probe design for genotyping multiallelic variants
Interactions between breast cancer predisposition genes and known risk factors on breast cancer risk
Intergenerational Socioeconomic Status and Genotype-by-Environment Interaction Impacting Metabolic Syndrome Traits: A Feasibility Study
Interlaboratory assessment of NIST test materials for lentiviral vector copy number and integration site measurements
Interplay between EIF2AK4 and HLA-DRA genes is associated with human survival to the oldest old age: New findings from the UK Biobank data
Interplay between Polygenic Risk Score and Solar Radiation Exposure: Implication for Systemic Lupus Erythematosus Onset and Pathogenesis
Interplay of germline risk loci, somatic variants, and structural alterations in the development of pancreatic cancer
Interpretable Multi-View Integrative Approaches Imputing Serum Short-Chain Fatty Acids from Gut Microbiome
Interpretable machine learning models for pre-screening cardiomyopathies.
Interpretation of whole genome sequencing for clinical care in rare disease on a national scale: the UK experience
Interrogating MR instruments for biological plausibility.
Interrogating aging-associated transcriptional changes in the murine enteric nervous system
Interrogating immuno-oncological interactions in the tumor microenvironment
Interrogation of functional variants in five COPD GWAS loci by massively parallel reporter assays
Intersecting predisposition germline variants from TCGA with the All of Us Research Program reveals the importance of diverse cancer datasets.
Intra-tumor heterogeneity of HPV integration and its association with focal genomic instability in oropharyngeal cancer.
Introducing an optimized, automated pipeline for phasing, local ancestry inference, and Tractor GWAS on admixed cohorts
Introduction to the Health and Medical Research Resources Information center in Korea National Institute of Health:focusing on Clinical & Omics Data Archive (CODA)
Introgression of structural variation in human OCA2 informs archaic hominins pigmentation.
Investigating Immune Functions of neuronal genes burdening Autism Spectrum Disorder: An integrated gene expression and mutation analysis
Investigating Mitochondrial Lineages in a Historic Afro-descendant Peruvian Population with Ancient DNA
Investigating alternative splice variants as potential biomarkers in Parkinson's disease: Insights from targeted sequencing of plasma extracellular vesicles
Investigating ancestry-dependent cis-regulatory elements in TOMM40 that modulate APOE-ε4 expression in Alzheimer's disease patient-derived microglia
Investigating ancestry-specific genetic variation in apolipoprotein L genes associated with electronic health record phenotypes in diverse patient biobanks
Investigating cell-type specific regulation of IRF4 via a lung cancer risk-associated pleiotropic variant
Investigating deep learning nuclei segmentation of H&E images for bulk RNA sequencing expression deconvolution.
Investigating genetic architecture of cognitive functioning in correlation to metabolic traits in the Indian population
Investigating the Genetic Association between Type 2 Diabetes and Dementia.
Investigating the Interplay of Sex and the Genetic Risk Factor, APOE, Across Ages in Alzheimer’s Disease at a Single Cell Resolution
Investigating the additive and interactive interactions between ADHD polygenic risk and environmental features on ADHD
Investigating the complex genomic structure of the low-affinity FCGR locus under different copy number states in healthy donors using long-range sequencing.
Investigating the contrast in ROH between Newfoundland founder population and ancestral British-Irish population based on 1000 Genomes data
Investigating the ecological suicide (“ecocide”) theory in Rapa Nui with ancient DNA data
Investigating the genetic and phenotypic landscape of Ectodermal Dysplasia.
Investigating the genetics of perinatal depression via polygenic scores
Investigating the impact of different copy number variant region definitions on copy number variation association analysis with whole genome sequencing data: Lessons learned from the Alzheimer’s Disease Sequencing Project (ADSP).
Investigating the interplay between variant pathogenicity and frequencies across populations
Investigating the molecular mechanism of a complex genomic rearrangement causing 6X amplification at 13q33.3
Investigating the pleiotropic genetic architecture of impulsivity across biological scales
Investigating the potential of single-cell DNA methylation data to detect allele-specific methylation and imprinting
Investigating the relationship between sleep-wake characteristics and risk of colorectal cancer: A Mendelian Randomization approach.
Investigating the role of RAB5A variants in bipolar disorders: Insights from Drosophila models
Investigating the role of Rbfox2 in Splicing and the Transcriptional Network of the SWI/SNF Complex in myoblast fusion
Investigating the role of rare microRNA-associated germline variants in the epileptic encephalopathies
Investigating the underlying genetic architecture of personality traits and overlap with psychopathology in 240,000 US military veterans.
Investigating vitreous cytokines in posterior uveal melanoma in relation to tumor occurrence, size parameters, and gene expression profiling-based prognostication.
Investigation of cancer related genes in patients with Ollier disease and Maffucci syndrome
Investigation of familial hypercholesterolemia prevalence and association with cardiovascular disease in an African ancestry cohort.
Investigation of gene transcription modifications associated with obesity inDanio rerio (zebrafish)
Investigation of the effect of FCRL gene family expression levels on prognosis in chronic lymphocytic leukemia patients.
Investigation of the genetic basis of pediatric psoriasis reveals contributions from both common risk alleles and rare de novo mutations.
Investigation of the sex chromosomes in Autism Spectrum Disorder.
Is inherited muscle strength a proxy for intrinsic capacity to resist age related pathologies and mortality?
Is linearity too strong of an assumption?
IsJKAMPgene associated with autosomal recessive “intellectual disability, autism spectrum disorder and seizures?” A Compound heterozygosity for two VUSs of JKAMP gene in a 22 yo female with global developmental delay, profound ID, ASD, and .
Isolate and neaten VNTRs (InVNTR): A command-line tool for VNTR analysis and visualization.
Iterative improvement of deep learning models using synthetic regulatory genomics
JB2 therapy for a mouse MEF2C haploinsufficiency model of human autism in Mali
JOB : Japan Omics Browser provides integrative visualization of multi-omics data.
Japanese biobank whole genome sequencing analysis identifies hearing loss risk genes for drug discovery.
Joint analysis of de novo mutations in autism spectrum disorders, schizophrenia, congenital heart disease, and other developmental disorders improves detection power and implicates shared molecular pathways and CNS processes
Joint analysis of multiple phenotypes for extremely unbalanced case-control association studies using multi-layer network
Joint analysis of phenotypically diverse rare disease cohort reveals new diagnostic genes
Joint fine-mapping of single variants and gene-based tests from exome sequencing and genotype imputation
Joint modeling of genomic and exposomic data for variance decomposition analysis to improve heritability estimation of complex human phenotypes
Karyotype prediction in pediatric acute leukemias using long-read sequencing.
Killer cell immunoglobulin-like receptor (KIR) genetic variation in the natural history of type 1 diabetes
LDPredx is a scalable, theoretically-justified method for cross-ancestry polygenic risk prediction
LOCATER: Enhancing GWAS with genealogical relationship inference
Lack of association between Mir27a, PPARG, Mir146a and Traf6 polymorphisms and type 2 Diabetes in the Tunisian population.
Lack of association between Native American genetic ancestry and the development of severe/critical COVID-19 in a Peruvian population sample.
Laipy: artificial intelligence for next-generation robust local ancestry inference.
Landscape of Colorado Center for Personalized Medicine Research Freeze 3
Landscape of diversity in the genomics workforce: a review and analysis of relevant literature
Language and neural networks in Smith Magenis Syndrome.
Large gene prioritization benchmark enables supervised learning of effector genes from GWAS loci
Large single cell level analysis of subcutaneous adipose tissue in Mexicans discovers distinct adipocyte sub-cell-types and genes associated with sex, Native American ancestry, obesity, and ancestry-obesity interactions.
Large tandem duplications in cancer result from transcription and DNA replication collision
Large-scale Circulating Proteome Association Study (CPAS) and its use for improved hip fracture prediction
Large-scale GWAS of strabismus identifies several novel risk loci and provides support for a link between maternal smoking and childhood eye disease
Large-scale admixture mapping unravels novel genetic insights into human disease.
Large-scale analysis of patient-derived induced neurons discover early developmental changes in schizophrenia.
Large-scale characterization of naturally occurring human regulatory genetic variation.
Large-scale cross-ancestry genome-wide meta-analysis of serum uric acid
Large-scale genetic studies discover an allelic spectrum of genetic risk factors for the epilepsies
Large-scale genome-wide association study of 398,238 women identifies nine novel loci associated with high-grade serous epithelial ovarian cancer risk
Large-scale genome-wide association study of dilated cardiomyopathy identifies genes and pathways contributing to pathology.
Large-scale genome-wide association study using genomic structural equation modeling provides insights into metabolic syndrome.
Large-scale testing of AGXT missense variant effects.
Large-scale trans-eQTL meta-analysis in lymphoblastoid cell lines reveals functional consequences of GWAS variants.
Lateral meningocele syndrome without lateral meningoceles: A case report to expand the phenotype.
Learning drug resistance mechanisms enables AI to generate rational anti-cancer combination therapies
Learning portable polygenic risk score models with mixtures of pre-trained experts to improve accuracy across the continuum of ancestry
Learning the environmental architecture of cardiometabolic disease at biobank scale.
Learning transcriptional signatures from high-dimensional data: Creating a set of spatially-resolved patterns of gene coexpression in the mouse cortex.
Leigh Syndrome Spectrum: Insights from the Largest Genetically Confirmed Pediatric International Cohort
Lessons learned from the nationwide 10K rare disease genome project.
Lessons learned in building trust and engaging underrepresented groups in direct-to-consumer genetic testing
Leveraging >8 million patient records across University of California to understand common variable immunodeficiencies.
Leveraging AI to improve variant prioritization algorithms and scale whole genome analysis
Leveraging AlphaFold2 for the classification of genetic Variants of Uncertain Significance
Leveraging Clinical Intuition to Improve Accuracy of Phenotype-Driven Prioritization
Leveraging Colorado Center for Personalized Medicine and electronic health records to perform HLA typing with an emphasis on potential pharmacogenetic alleles
Leveraging Existing DNA Sequence-to-Expression Models for Enhanced Single-Cell Gene Expression Prediction
Leveraging Large Genealogies for Realistic Population Genetics Simulations.
Leveraging a multi-population GWAS meta-analysis to prioritize genes underlying risk loci for central obesity: the Genetic Investigation of ANthropometric Traits (GIANT) Consortium.
Leveraging an animal model of CHD8-related syndrome to interrogate brain circuits: CHD8 heterozygous mice display decreased impulsivity in the differential reinforcement of low rate responding assay, but no difference in attention or motivation, .
Leveraging ancestral recombination graphs for fast and accurate estimation of selection coefficients and allele histories from ancient DNA
Leveraging and Partitioning of Polygenic Risk Scores Identifies Proteomic Networks Underlying Cancer Risks
Leveraging cell type-specific epigenomic data to dissect adult-onset and childhood-onset asthma GWAS loci.
Leveraging distributed cloud infrastructure to analyze genetic data at scale.
Leveraging donor variability in primary human hepatocytes to identify variation in drug metabolism in African Americans: CYP1A2 and glucoronidation
Leveraging functional annotations to identify interactions between rare-variant gene sets and environmental factors
Leveraging genetic correlation and multiple population datasets to improve genetic prediction across populations
Leveraging heritability and genetic correlation to maximize GWAS power in EHR-connected biobanks
Leveraging identity-by-descent to identify novel loci associated with esophageal ulceration
Leveraging local ancestry and cross-ancestry genetic architecture to improve the genetic prediction of complex traits in admixed populations
Leveraging machine learning derived liver fat predictions from multiple data modalities in the UK Biobank for genetic discovery in NAFLD
Leveraging mammalian and primate constraint to understand genetic variation and human disease
Leveraging multi-omics data to interpret a genome-wide meta-analysis of DNA methylation and PTSD in 23 military and civilian cohorts.
Leveraging multimodal neuroimaging data to identify novel genetic pathways to Alzheimer's disease
Leveraging multiomics data to improve diagnostic yield: A prospective study of 29 familial cases.
Leveraging multiple fine-tuning datasets and genetic ancestry continuum information to harmonize PRS for admixed populations
Leveraging plasma proteomics and supervised machine learning to interpret complex-trait genetics
Leveraging polygenic scores to reveal the interplay of serum bilirubin, smoking, and cancer risk in a diverse Los Angeles biobank
Leveraging spatial transcriptomics data to recover cell locations in single-cell RNA-seq with CeLEry
Leveraging the All of Us biobank to build multi-ancestry polygenic scores for NSAID-induced gastrointestinal bleeding.
Leveraging ~937K exomes to estimate cancer risk conferred by rare deleterious germline variants in hereditary cancer genes
Lifetime reproductive success in 14 million sibling pairs reveals novel genetic insights into human complex diseases
Limited overlap of eQTLs and GWAS hits due to systematic differences in discovery
Linkreg: Inferring cis-regulatory element to gene links using diverse epigenomic annotations across cell types.
Lipidomics profiling and plasma triglyceride concentration in African populations.
Literature-based predictions of treatments for genetic disease pathology
LoGicAl: Local ancestry and genotype calling uncertainty adjusted ancestry-specific allele frequency estimation from admixed populations.
Local Admixture Mapping of Proteins in African Americans
Local Ancestry-Aware Genotype Principal Component Analysis on Chronic Kidney Disease GWAS signals.
Local ancestry inference in the MHC locus.
Localization of polygenic signal in Alzheimer’s disease through the integration of cell-type functional annotations and deep learning models.
Localized Multi-Trait Model: Predicting Disease Risks, Identifying Variant Associations, and Mapping Trait Networks
Localized spatial dimensionality reduction on spatial transcriptomics
Loci for Urinary Microbiota Abundance in a Multi-Ethnic Cohort of Children with Urinary Tract Infections and Vesicoureteral Reflux.
Locus-specific neuroepigenome editing for X-linked intellectual disability
Long Term Renal Transplant Success is Possible in Hypoparathyroidism, Sensorineural Deafness, and Renal Dysplasia Syndrome: A Familial Case Series.
Long read RNA-sequencing demarcates cis and trans-directed alternative RNA splicing.
Long read single cell whole genome sequencing from human brains
Long telomeres promote clonal hematopoiesis with aging by delaying replicative senescence
Long-Chain Fatty Acid Oxidation Disorder Gene Variants and Newborn Screening Results from a Sponsored Gene Panel Program
Long-chain polyunsaturated fatty acids aberrations in bipolar disorder: Whole genome sequencing analysis
Long-read Khoe-San genomes reveal structurally divergent loci overlapping genic regions
Long-read RNA sequencing identified the different gene isoforms in different brain regions and their relationship with DNA methylation.
Long-read RNA sequencing identifies consistency amongst tissues and laboratories for RNA-isoforms of known genes and de novo gene bodies.
Long-read RNA-sequencing identifies novel protein coding transcripts of genes with implications for inherited and complex cardiac disease
Long-read proteogenomics to connect disease-associated sQTLs to the protein isoform effectors of disease
Long-read sequencing addressed clinically unsolved problems remained by expanded carrier screening: thalassemia as an example.
Long-read sequencing for CYP2D6 genotyping of Korean: Preliminary result
Long-read sequencing of 1000 Genomes Project samples to catalog normal patterns of human genome structural variation.
Long-read sequencing of cervical cancer reveals the structure of DNA ends during Breakage-Fusion-Bridge events
Long-read sequencing of hundreds of human brains provides insight into the impact of structural variation and methylation
Long-read sequencing reveals novel transcripts induced by misexpression of DUX4 in FSHD muscle
Long-read sequencing reveals transcriptome variations in a right ventricle pressure overload Porcine model administered autologous umbilical cord blood-derived mononuclear stem cell therapy.
Long-read sequencing show Japanese myotonic dystrophy type 2 patients carry a haplotype different from the European founder haplotype
Long-term cardiovascular risk according to genetic risk for hypertensive disease during pregnancy, lifestyle, and metabolic health
Longitudinal DNA methylation highlights genes for COPD progression.
Longitudinal analysis of 4,187 participants in the Atherosclerosis Risk in Communities Study reveals new insights into the determinants of incident clonal hematopoiesis
Longitudinal changes in intron retention in a twin cohort are widespread and highlight mechanisms of ageing
Longitudinal dynamics of lysophosphatidylcholines in relation to mortality, aging and APOE: Findings from Long Life Family Study.
Longitudinal gene expression changes associated with liver measures in Hispanic/Latino population at risk for metabolic-associated fatty liver disease
Looking Back on GWAS Using Hybrid Artificial Intelligence
Loss of GFAP causes optico-retinal abnormalities and vision impairment.
Loss of TBCK alters bone cell homeostasis resulting in altered bone morphology.
Loss of an oligodendrocyte specific silencer element drives the cell specific overexpression of lamin B1 in Autosomal Dominant Leukodystrophy
Loss of function in RBBP5 results in a syndromic neurodevelopmental disorder associated with microcephaly.
Loss-of CFHR5 conveys protection from Age-related macular degeneration
Loss-of-function variants in CUL3 cause a syndromic neurodevelopmental disorder
Low Coverage Meta-Imputation Improves Imputation Accuracy for Ancient DNA.
Low carnitine palmitoyltransferase 1 activity is associated with narcolepsy type 1 and other hypersomnia
Low-Abundance Somatic Variants Activating Ras-MAPK Signaling Cause Drug-Resistant Focal Epilepsy in Adolescents and Adults
Low-coverage sequencing imputation with 150,119 UK Biobank reference samples
Low-pass mate-pair genome sequencing versus chromosomal microarray analysis: validation and implementation in prenatal diagnosis
Low-pass whole genome sequencing with imputation provides an accurate and cost-effective alternative to array genotyping for GWAS and PRS approaches.
Lung cancer in ever- and never-smokers: Findings from multi-population GWAS studies.
Lymphocyte count-derived polygenic score and interindividual variability in CD4 T-cell recovery in response to antiretroviral therapy
MAJIQ-CLIN: A novel tool for the identification of Mendelian disease-causing variants from RNA-seq data
MAPT expression is mediated by long-range interactions with cis-regulatory elements
MAVEs to systematically understand and predict amyloid formation in human disease
MECP2 copy number variants studied by multiple approaches reveal impact of genomic structure to disease variability.
METTL23 mutation alters histone H3R17 methylation in inherited normal tension glaucoma
MR-link 2: Improved cis Mendelian randomization validated through three independent validation datasets.
MSSNG 2023 release: an expanded cloud-based whole-genome sequencing resource for Autism Spectrum Disorder research.
MTClass: Identification and annotation of multi-phenotype cis-eQTLs using machine learning.
MTOR variants increase the risk of developing thoracic aortic disease
MUSK-related disorder severity is predicted by protein domains and allele combinations
Machine Learning Prediction on Ketamine Treatment Response in Posttraumatic Stress Disorder Based on Methylation Capture Sequencing Data
Machine learning and misalignment: Towards a comprehensive approach.
Machine learning based integration of large-scale priors for genetic fine-mapping, colocalization and in-silico functionalization
Machine learning of open chromatin regions enables prediction of constrained regions and prioritization of putative causal variants in a cell type-specific manner.
Machine learning-based penetrance of clinical variants
Machine learning-derived risk of atherosclerosis progression reveals novel genetic associations and empowers drug target discovery
Macula transcriptome and eQTL analyses identify regional specificity and susceptibility to age related macular degeneration
Making a human specific model: Maternal Immune Activation and Neuroinflammation.
Making the call: Trends among successful strategies to conclude the diagnostic odyssey for participants at the Pacific Northwest Undiagnosed Diseases Network clinical site.
Mapping genetic contributions to individual- and cell type-specific brain oxidative stress responses
Mapping loci associated with impaired female reproduction
Mapping sleep’s phenotypic and genetic links to multiple organs: a systematic analysis of multi-organ images in the UK Biobank
Mapping the genetic contribution to neuroinflammatory cell traits using QTL mapping of iPSC-derived microglia
Mapping the landscape of lineage-specific dynamic regulation of gene expression using single-cell transcriptomics and application to genetics of complex disease
Mapping the pleiotropic effects of genetic susceptibility loci identifies multi-system involvements in heart failure pathology
Mass General Brigham Biobank - Insights from a New England Healthcare Biobank
Massive-scale meta-analysis of genetic regulation of RNA editing in the human brain identifies new risk genes and mechanisms for neurological disease
Massively Parallel Reporter Assay Reveals Promoter Position-Dependent and Tissue-Specific Effects in Islet TSSs
Massively parallel CRISPR-based perturbation of a COPD risk-enriched region on chromosome 4q.
Massively parallel reporter assays and 3D chromatin structure in innate immune cells identify novel putative Alzheimer’s Disease risk genes.
Massively parallel reporter assays identify functional enhancer variants at QT interval GWAS loci.
Massively parallel reporter assays of enhancer variants at selected QT interval GWAS loci.
Matched Annotation from NCBI and EMBL-EBI (MANE): Towards completion of MANE Select set and beyond.
Maternal and De Novo Variants in MYBPC3 Result in Presentation of Severe Neonatal Mixed Hypertrophic and Non-compaction Cardiomyopathy.
Maternal genetic nurture and risk of childhood neuropsychiatric disorders.
Maternal genetic variation shapes human milk and the infant gut microbiome
Matrix factorization analysis of cross-trait associations identifies platelet crit as a new causal or pleiotropic effect for primary open angle glaucoma
Maximizing diagnostic yield of genomic autopsies in pregnancy loss and perinatal death
Measuring (almost) all possible STK11/LKB1 missense variants in monogenic disease and cancer
Measuring and Maximizing Outcomes in Population Genomic Screening: a High-Touch Recontact Pilot
Measuring constraint against missense variation in the context of AlphaFold2 protein structures
Measuring genome wide sensitivity for detecting copy number variations (CNVs) using a sampling methodology.
MedGenome’s genomics solutions for large-scale genetics studies
Mediation of APOE Associations with Cognition through ATN
Medical and surgical complications in paediatric patients with achondroplasia followed in a specialty skeletal dysplasia centre.
Medically actionable findings from the Texome Project: Implementation of genomic medicine in underserved groups in Texas.
Mendelian Randomization Analysis of the Effects of Alcohol Use on Cancer Risk
Mendelian Randomization analysis of metabolites associated with severe obesity in the Hispanic Community Health Study/ Study of Latinos (HCHS/SOL)
Mendelian randomization analyses identify causal associations between human gut microbiome composition and intelligence.
Mendelian randomization analyses suggest a causal role for circulating GIP levels in homeostatic model assessment (HOMA)-derived measures of beta-cell function and insulin sensitivity.
Mendelian randomization approach suggests the potential of repurposing anti-diabetic drugs for the prevention of Parkinson's disease.
Mendelian randomization in approximately 1 million stuttering cases and controls show significant causal effects of genes and illuminate causal relationships between hormonal, behavioral, and psychiatric traits and stuttering liability
Mendelian randomization shows no causal effect of serum vitamin D levels on thyroid function.
Mendelian randomization study of body mass index and all-cause and vascular-metabolic mortality in 125,000 Mexican adults
Merging Worldwide Neuroimaging and Genomics using AI and Machine Learning.
Meta-Prediction Reveals Polygenic Scores are the Principal Features Distinguishing Prospective Risk Reduction Profiles in Coronary Artery Disease
Meta-analysis of Alzheimer's disease GWAS identifies novel loci and implicates regulation of a hypoxic-responsive gene as a disease mechanism
Meta-analysis of Rare Loss of Function Variant Data from the UK Genetic Prostate Cancer Study (UKGPCS) Identifies Genes Associated with Risk of Aggressive Prostate Cancer.
Meta-analysis of cardiac eQTLs improves identifying heart failure mechanisms
Meta-analysis of set-based multiple phenotype association test based on GWAS summary statistics from different cohorts
Meta-learning for instant genetic classification with neural networks.
Metabolic Liver Transplant: A Single Cooperative from 2005-2022
Metabolic liver cancer: Associations of rare and common germline variants in one-carbon metabolism and DNA methylation genes
Metabolite mediators of polygenic risk for obesity traits in the Hispanic Community Health Study/Study of Latinos (HCHS/SOL).
Metabolite prediction models in UK Biobank: A metabolome-wide association study (MWAS)
Metabolome-wide Mendelian randomization for youth type 2 diabetes
Metabolome-wide association study of obesity in a high-risk pediatric cohort
Metabolomic Signature of Canagliflozin
Metabolomic and genomic prediction of 12 common diseases in half a million individuals from three national biobanks
Metabolomic profile in Pre-eclampsia: a case control study in third trimester.
Metabolomic signatures of cognitive impairment in the Canadian Longitudinal Study on Aging
MethPhaser: Methylation-based haplotype phasing of human genomes
Methods for multi-phenotype colocalization analysis in a single cohort
Methods to characterize mosaic and engineered variants in HG002 using HG002 T2T diploid assembly
Methods to prevent hepatitis B vaccine escape elucidated through a genetic association study of antibody responses in Bangladeshi infants
Methotrexate Drug Responses in Rheumatoid Arthritis are influenced by Methylation Mapping Genes
Methyl-TWAS: A powerful method for precise pseudo-transcriptome-wide association studies (TWAS) using long-range DNA methylation.
Methylation Detection in Cancer Cells with Long Read Sequencing Technology
Methylome analysis of whole blood in ancestrally diverse Alzheimer’s disease cohorts as a biomarker of disease
MiR-206 expression in the differential diagnosis of pediatric sarcomas.
MiSeVis: A R-Shiny based platform for visualizing disease candidate genes with mutated protein structures caused by missense variants and predicting drug targets of candidate biomarkers.
MiXeR-TAG: A new method for classification of overlapping and trait specific variants.
Microbic Risk Score to mapping metabolic networks in childhood obesity.
Microbiome Preterm Birth DREAM Challenge: Crowdsourcing Machine Learning Approaches ​to Advance Preterm Birth Research
Microbiome and host genetic effects on gene regulation in Inflammatory Bowel Disease.
Microcephaly with or without Chorioretinopathy, Lymphedema and Mental retardation (MCLMR) syndrome in a patient from India
Microevolutionary processes analysis in the human genome
Microglial genes show significant difference in transcriptional burst kinetics between minor cognitive impairment and Alzheimer’s disease cases
Mind the reference gap
Minimal evidence of statistical epistasis between height-associated SNPs
Minimizing uncertainty and increasing equity in genetic testing: the role of machine learning tools in the classification of genetic variants
Minor genetic overlap between rheumatoid arthritis and myocardial infarction.
Miqa: A no-code, automated bioinformatic QA platform to continuously improve the accuracy and reliability of computational tools used in clinical genomics.
Misconceptions and limitations of video education: Barriers to genetic testing in Black or Spanish-language patients with cancer.
MitoNet1.0: A genetic interaction network of the human mitochondrion.
Mitochondrial DNA haplogroup K is protective of Autism Spectrum Disorder risk in populations of European ancestry.
Mitochondrial DNA heteroplasmy and incident cardiovascular disease
Mitochondrial dysfunction detected by peripheral blood mononuclear cells analysis in patients with Williams-Beuren syndrome
Mixed Turkic and Mongolic ancestry reveals complex history and origin of the Tu and other Chinese populations.
MntJULiP and Jutils: Tools for differential splicing detection and visualization from complex RNA-seq data sets
Modeling and characterizing development of transposition of the great arteries using patient-derived iPSC cardiac organoids
Modeling the interplay of DNA damage and repair helps to identify key parameters of human mutagenesis
Modelling genotype-phenotype dose-response dynamics to prioritise novel drug targets: a statistical workflow for common and rare variants
Molecular Diagnostic Yield of Exome Sequencing and Chromosomal Microarray in Short Stature: A Systematic Review and Meta-analysis
Molecular and cellular characterization of a lymphatic anomaly-associated mutation in TEK
Molecular and cellular characterization of the Parkinson’s disease olfactory bulb.
Molecular and clinical features of high-grade serous ovarian cancers in BRCA1 and BRCA2 mutation carriers
Molecular and phenotypic characterization of a group of Colombian patients with clinical suspicion of a RASopathy.
Molecular changes to the human testis during healthy ageing
Molecular characterization of PDGFRB p.Asn666 variants
Molecular characterization of a colombian group of patients with clinical suspicion of dystrophynopathies.
Molecular characterization of appendiceal epithelial cancer using integrated single-cell RNA sequencing
Molecular detection of Sickle Cell Anemia & Classic Haplotypes in the β-globin gene (HBB) cluster by means of SNPs, in a group of samples from Bolívar department, for a better understanding of this rare disease in Colombia.
Molecular diagnosis for patients with autism spectrum disorder
Molecular diagnosis of retinal dystrophies in a northeast population of Mexico
Molecular genetic analysis of patients with skeletal disorders: Identification of ultra-rare monogenic diseases.
Molecular genetic testing of congenital adrenal hyperplasia due to 21-hydroxylase deficiency should include comprehensive chimera analysis.
Molecular insights from telomere-to-telomere assemblies of diverse human Y chromosomes across 185,000 years of evolution
Molecular landscape of non-driver genes in myeloproliferative neoplasms through next generation sequencing; insights to reveal in Pakistan
Molecular outlook in RASopathies - a five years' experience
Molecular tools for determination of post-trauma injury complications
Monoallelic GATA2 mutation in a patient with multiple recalcitrant warts and critical COVID19
Monogenic genes in nephrolithiasis: comparative approaches in gene discovery.
Monosomy 7 in Philadelphia-PositiveCML
Monthly intravitreal enzyme replacement in classic late-infantile CLN2 disease slows decline in visual acuity: a case report.
Morphology profiling driven by deep learning characterizes functional changes in CRISPR knockout cell lines
Mosaic: A multiplexed in-vivo drug screening platform at the intersection of single-cell RNA sequencing and small molecule oncology.
Mosaicism for two distinct PTEN variants in PTEN hamartoma and blood
Mouse knockout shows Sumo1 is essential for embryonic development and contributes to adult organ function.
Moving beyond sequence: leveraging DNA structure in genomic deep learning models
Mucopolysaccharidosis Type VII (MPS VII): GUSB gene variant database
Muesli intake protects against coronary artery disease: A Mendelian randomization study on 13 dietary traits.
Multi Origins Cell type Alignment (MOCA): Deep Learning-Based Integration of Fibroblast Populations across Human Organs Reveals Universal Developmental Trajectories in Fibrotic Tissues
Multi ancestry multi trait meta analysis of autoimmune diseases.
Multi-Trait Analyses Reveal Novel Genetic Etiology for Congenital Heart Disease and Congenital Diaphragmatic Hernia
Multi-ancestry GWAS identifies a novel osteosarcoma susceptibility locus at 12q24.13
Multi-ancestry Whole-exome Sequencing Study of Alcohol Use Disorder in Two Cohorts
Multi-ancestry gene expression prediction identifies novel genes regulating complex traits specifically in individuals of African descent.
Multi-ancestry genetic analysis of long COVID in 23andMe Research Participants
Multi-ancestry genetic architecture of heart failure subtypes.
Multi-ancestry genome-wide analysis of circulating D-dimer.
Multi-ancestry genome-wide association study of broad psychiatric symptom domains in the Adolescent Brain Cognitive Development Study.
Multi-ancestry genome-wide association study of prostate-specific antigen levels identifies novel loci and improves cross-population prediction
Multi-ancestry genome-wide meta-analysis in Parkinson’s disease
Multi-ancestry phenome-wide association analyses of genetic liability for problematic alcohol use
Multi-ancestry polygenic risk scores improve prediction of PTSD symptom severity and trajectory
Multi-ancestry transcriptome predictions with functionally informed variants improve transcriptome-wide association studies in TOPMed MESA
Multi-class Modeling Identifies Shared Genetic Risk for Late-onset Epilepsy and Alzheimer’s Disease
Multi-cohort cerebrospinal fluid proteomics identifies robust molecular signatures for asymptomatic and symptomatic Alzheimer’s disease
Multi-ethnic meta-analysis GWAS of autism uncovers four novel genes.
Multi-ethnic meta-analysis of earlier onset Alzheimer's Disease identifies novel risk loci
Multi-modal characterization of type 2 diabetes in Project Baseline beyond clinical diagnosis
Multi-omic integration uncovers biological pathways underlying HIV viral load
Multi-omics Integration Analysis for Osteoporosis Biomarker Discovery
Multi-omics Integration Identifies Genes Influencing Traits Associated with Cardiovascular Risks
Multi-omics analyses to prioritise genes at migraine risk loci.
Multi-omics and Functional Analysis Identifies Novel Genetic and Methylation Markers Contributing to Antipsychotic-Induced Metabolic Syndromes
Multi-omics approach to characterize the TANGO2 function: dance partners and potential therapies
Multi-omics approaches reveal key molecular signature of severe obesity
Multi-omics in nasal epithelium reveals three axes of dysregulation for asthma risk in the African Diaspora populations
Multi-omics uncover dysregulated cerebellar pathways associated with neurodegeneration in a mouse model of Chediak-Higashi Syndrome.
Multi-organ genetic causal connections inferred from imaging and clinical data through Mendelian randomization
Multi-signal eQTL power in the context of missing colocalization.
Multi-study pQTL analysis of Somascan proteomics in multi-ancestry TOPMed Cohorts
Multi-trait GWAS for diverse ancestries : Mapping the knowledge gap
Multi-trait analysis characterizes the genetics of thyroid function and identifies causal associations with clinical implications
Multi-trait analysis of GWAS identifies 52 novel genomic loci associated with circulating polyunsaturated fatty acids
Multi-trait investigation of inflammation-associated DNA methylation among people with HIV
Multi-transcriptomic analyses reveal altered expression profiles of immune response genes in Pick’s disease
MultiSTAAR: A statistical framework for powerful rare variant multi-trait analysis in biobank-scale sequencing studies
MultiSuSiE improves multi-ancestry fine-mapping in All of Us whole-genome sequencing data.
Multidimensional analysis of pedigree, epidemiologic, and molecular data identify risk and perceived causative factors for ME/CFS.
Multidimensional mutational scanning of the human insulin receptor gene to accelerate diagnosis and enable translational studies
Multigenerational impacts on DNA methylation signatures in autism spectrum disorder.
Multimodal analysis of RNA sequencing data powers genomic discovery.
Multimodal sequencing approaches to end the diagnostic odyssey of patients with suspected rare monogenetic diseases.
Multiome single-nuclear profiling of chromatin accessibility and gene expression in human liver samples: insights into cell-type-specific regulation.
Multiomic association network: Capturing cardiovascular disease complexity with the genomic, metabolomic, drug treatment, and disease features.
Multiomic single cell analysis of primary pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma enhanced by fixation.
Multiomics reveals oral microbiome mediated biological mechanisms underlying obesity in Emiratis.
Multiple Viruses Detected in Human DNA are Associated with Alzheimer Disease Risk
Multiple approaches to generating polygenic risk scores for lung adenocarcinoma in East Asian never-smokers
Multiple sequence modifications result in loss of chitinolytic activity in YKL-40.
Multiplex measurement of variant effects in secreted proteins using coagulation factor IX and its role in Hemophilia B as a model
Multiplexed library construction free of preamplification for tracible single cell copy number variation sequencing
Multivariable Mendelian Randomization adjusting for heritable confounding suggests that C-reactive protein is a biomarker but not causal for multiple complex diseases
Multivariable Mendelian Randomization identifies LDL cholesterol-independent proteins putatively causal for coronary artery disease
Multivariable Mendelian randomization reveals potential causal genes that contribute to blood pressure traits in diverse populations
Mutation-specific pathophysiological mechanisms of AFF3 differently influence the DNA repair pathway
Mutational and gene expression profiles of early-onset preeclampsia.
Mutational processes of tobacco smoking and APOBEC activity generate protein-truncating mutations in cancer genomes
Mutational spectrum of Korean patients with T-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia
Mutations in Cardiomyopathy Genes are Enriched in Pediatric Postural Orthostatic Tachycardia Syndrome
Myelodysplastic syndromes progression: A comprehensive expression-based in silico analysis.
N-of-1 personalized medicine: Identification of a putative small fiber peripheral polyneuropathy-causing mutation in the glycolytic intermediate enzyme,PHGDH.
NCBI Variant Databases for Identification and Analysis of Common and Somatic Variants
NCBI clinical resources to support genetic testing result interpretation and clinical action
NGS based Genetic Analysis of Embryos for Chromosomal Abnormalities in Nepal
NGS driven identification of a rare homozygous variant in the GNE gene, causing hereditary inclusion body myopathy type 2
NIA Genetics of Alzheimer's Disease Data Storage Site (NIAGADS): 2023 Update.
NKX6-2- related leukodystrophy: natural history study, clinical phenotype, biomarkers, and gene therapy
NMR-based analyses identify serum metabolites associated with acute stroke using patients from the MISS and UK biobank
NODAL variants are associated with a continuum of laterality defects from simple D-transposition of the great arteries to heterotaxy.
NSD2 expression driven by the t(4;14) translocation disrupts the DNA methylation landscape in multiple myeloma
Nanoparticle enrichment mass-spectrometry proteomics identifies protein-altering variants for precise pQTL mapping
Nanopore Adaptive Sampling combines both targeted and low-pass whole genome sequencing in a single assay.
Nanopore long-read sequencing analysis in patients with congenital malformations and balanced chromosomal abnormalities
Narrative explorations of rare and undiagnosed genetic diseases: Elucidating lived experiences of the diagnostic odyssey.
National Swine Resource and Research Center for translational genomic research
National Validation of Long-read Whole Genome Sequencing for Characterizing Chromosomal Genomic Rearrangements in Sweden
Nationwide implementation of rapid genomic diagnosis of sick newborn infants in Japan
Native Hawaiians and Pacific Islanders: Is APOE a Biomarker of Disease?
Natural and genetically engineered non-human primate models of genomic and genetic disorders
Natural history and molecular characterization of patients with Metaphyseal Enchondromatosis with D-2-Hydroxyglutaric aciduria (MCHGA)
Natural partial loss of function variants in SEL1L rescue NGLY1 deficiency by altering ERAD and improving proteasome function.
Natural variation in splicing is widespread across humans and can be used to interpret variants in complex traits
Naturally occurring compounds block an exonic splicing silencer and partially rescue normal gene expression in a genotype of choroideremia.
Navigating the Path to Diagnosis: An Efficient Workflow for AADC Deficiency Assessment.
Navigating the health landscape of sex chromosome trisomies using phenome-wide associations of medical records from three international cohorts
Network diffusion-based risk scoring models for coronary artery diseases in UK biobank individuals: Fusing polygenic impact of intermediate clinical factors on complex disease
Network-based Genetic Subtyping and Drug Repositioning for Alzheimer’s Disease
Network-based approach to gene prioritization at GWAS loci.
Neuroaxonal dystrophy with osteopetrosis syndrome caused by a novel biallelic missense homozygous variant in SCYL2
Neurodevelopmental Comorbidities in Newborn Screening Conditions.
Neurofilament light chain levels in cerebrospinal fluid is useful for evaluating the disease activities of cerebral adrenoleukodystrophy
Neurogenetic syndromes with cerebral palsy revealed by whole-exome sequencing
Neuroimaging PheWAS of Essential Tremor Genes: Matching Genes to Neuromorphology
Neuron-specific chromatin disruption at CpG islands and aging-related regions in Kabuki syndrome
Neuronal DNA double-strand breaks lead to chromosomal structural variations and 3D genome disruption in neurodegeneration
Neuronal transcription of autism gene PTCHD1 is regulated by a conserved downstream enhancer sequence
Neuropathology GWAS identifies novel genes involved in amyloid, vascular brain injury, and cerebrovascular disease from common variants.
New Histological Approach in Spatial Transcriptomics Implicates Glandular Cell Involvement in Pathophysiology of Sjögren’s Disease
New Insights into Genetic Factors Associated with Helicobacter pylori Infection: A Large-Scale GWAS in Japan
New Insights into Genomic Variation from Long-read Sequencing of >1000 African-American Participants in the All of Us Research Program
New T2T CHM13 genome emphasizes the importance of proper genomic structure and indicates dramatic gene movements. Genomics: #ItsComplicated
New developments in the RD-Connect GPAP facilitate research on diagnosis and gene discovery for rare diseases
New drug repositioning method using multi-layer omics data based on transformer-based network method
New insights into biotinidase deficiency in a large carrier screening cohort.
New insights into the genetic ethology of 57 essential and non-essential trace elements in humans
New insights into thyroid hormone regulation: a transcriptome and proteome-wide association study.
New phenotypic features in Osteoglophonic dysplasia.
New phenotyping approaches are essential to advance genetic discovery for psychiatric disorders.
Next generation cytogenomics: high resolution analysis of chromosomal aberrations using proximity ligation sequencing.
Next generation sequencing in the clinical setting: four years’ experience from a private laboratory in Brazil.
Next-generation map of constrained coding regions from hundreds of thousands of humans
Non mosaic trisomy 22. A case report.
Non-APOE genetic risk scores for late-onset Alzheimer disease in a diverse clinical population
Non-Canonical Splice Variants are an Underrecognized Cause of Acute Aortic Dissections.
Non-additive interactions of rare variants and lifestyle factors contribute to obesity
Non-additive polygenic scores.
Non-canonical open reading frames in the clinic: Advancing bench-to-bedside efforts.
Non-coding regulation of mitochondrial copy number in humans.
Non-immune hydrops fetalis is associated with autosomal recessive variants in the MYB Binding Protein 1a (MYBBP1A) gene
Non-syndromic congenital sideroblastic anemia: Phenotype and genotype of nine Indian patients.
Noncoding and germ line mutations in African American esophageal squamous cell carcinoma
Noncoding variant effect prediction with probabilistic machine learning models
Noninvasive Preimplantation Genetic Testing for Aneuploidy from Spent culture Media in infertile couples.
Not just one: the utility of whole genome sequencing for making a dual molecular diagnosis
Novel MARVELD2 Frameshift Variant Associated with Post-lingual Autosomal Recessive Non-Syndromic Hearing Impairment
Novel Mitochondrial DNA Variations reveal insights from the Taiwanese Population
Novel Optical Genome Mapping Algorithm for Detection of Structural Variants in Hematological Cancers
Novel PRKACA variant in a patient of with multiple congenital anomalies
Novel SCN1A and SCN1B variants lead to Dravet syndrome and generalized epilepsy with febrile seizures plus type 1
Novel Systematic Congenital Anomaly Case Collection Method and Preliminary Analyses Identifying Causes of Congenital Anomalies
Novel and known minor alleles of CNTNAP2 gene variants are associated with comorbidity of intellectual disability and epilepsy phenotypes: A case-control association study.
Novel and recurrent variants in PAX6 in four patients with ocular phenotypes from Southeast Asia
Novel application of NIPT to indirectly diagnose paternal sex chromosome aneuploidy via parent-of-origin analysis
Novel applications of the All of Us Research Program platform in a course-based undergraduate research experience.
Novel biallelic splice-site variants in ATP8A2 causing cerebellar ataxia, impaired intellectual development and disequilibrium syndrome-4.
Novel deletion 19(q13.31q13.32) with syndromic presentation.
Novel disease associations identified in pediatric restrictive cardiomyopathy by genomic and transcriptomic analysis.
Novel facial gestalt and cancer risk in patients with Beckwith-Wiedemann spectrum caused by CDKN1C mutations
Novel gene polymorphisms for stable warfarin dose in a Korean population: Genome-wide association study
Novel genetic loci associated with cirrhosis and primary liver cancer in the Million Veteran Program suggest potential therapeutic relevance for EPHA2 and JAK2 signaling
Novel genomic engineering technologies for developing next generation mouse models of genomic diseases
Novel methods for estimating risk parameters associated with polygenic scores using case-parent trio designs
Novel modifiers of age-at-onset for Alzheimer’s disease identified in African American datasets as well as meta-analyses across populations.
Novel molecular diagnoses in individuals with holoprosencephaly and prior negative sequencing
Novel multi-omics analysis methods for the prioritization of therapeutic targets: a versatile platform
Novel mutations in BLOC-1 and BLOC-2 HPS genes in patients with non-syndromic ocular albinism: using NGS to improve diagnosis and follow-up
Novel pathogenic variants identified in BBS genes through Genome Sequencing - BBS1 exon 10-11 deletion, BBS9 stop-gain SNV.
Novel pathogenic variants identified in TRAPP genes in families with Neurodevelopmental Disorders
Novel phenotype associated with homozygous pathogenic variant in the POP1 gene
Novel variants identified in black South African families with vitiligo
NovelTAF1variants associated with reduced RAP74 phosphorylation in patients with X-linked intellectual disability
Null and missense mutations of ERI1 cause a recessive phenotypic dichotomy in humans
Observational registry study of treatment practices and long-term outcomes of children with neurofibromatosis type 1 and plexiform neurofibromas initiating selumetinib in real-world practice in the United States: Study design and methodology
Offering return of results at the time of enrollment improves uptake of genomic screening among participants of a diverse biobank
Older adults with Alzheimer’s disease had a higher burden of infections diagnosed before AD, and it was influenced by sex, race, and APOE4 status
Olink Insight and Human Disease Blood Atlas to uncover human disease proteome and accelerate adoption of proteomics.
Omics Research in the Environmental influences on Child Health Outcomes (ECHO)-wide Cohort Study (EWC)
One third of genetic loci associated with coronary artery disease, including CDKN2B-AS1, are independent of known heritable clinical risk factors.
Ongoing Natural History study in Phosphomannomutase 2 Congenital Disorder of Glycosylation (PMM2-CDG): Clinical and Basic Investigations
Opioid Overdose Death and Gene Dysregulation: A Transcriptome-wide Association Study in Nucleus Accumbens
Optical Genome Mapping: A New Option for Prenatal Diagnosis.
Optical genome mapping as a potential routine clinical diagnostic method.
Optical genome mapping for detection of chromosomal aberrations in prenatal diagnosis
Optical genome mapping for genome-wide structural variation analysis in hematologic malignancies: results of a prospective study and impact on diagnosis and management
Optical genome mapping identified a KMT2C exonic deletion in a Kleefstra syndrome subject resulting from maternal mosaicism.
Optical genome mapping versus chromosomal microarray analysis and karyotyping in prenatal diagnosis
Optimization of ORACollect buccal sample extraction for clinical molecular analysis.
Optimization of long-read platforms for clinical utility.
Optimization of preimplantation genetic testing workflow for a higher percentage of euploid embryos
Optimizing Multimodal Single Cell Sequencing to Fine-Map an Alloimmunization Susceptibility Locus in Sickle Cell Disease
Optimizing generation of human isogenic iPSC lines via CRISPR prime editing
Optimizing variant impact prediction in autoinflammatory disease
Order of magnitude increase in signals of natural selection in ancient DNA data realizes the promise of time transects to provide qualitatively new insights into human adaptation
Organs-on-chips for translational genomic research
Outsmarting data limitations: probabilistic data augmentation via simulation of low-coverage whole-genome sequencing
Overcoming Limitations of RNA-Seq Library Construction from FFPE Samples Using a Novel Workflow
Overweight as a causal factor for survival in late life: A Mendelian randomization study.
PDIVAS: Pathogenicity predictor for Deep-Intronic Variants causing Aberrant Splicing
PDPR gene variant predisposing to familial papillary thyroid cancer
PEG-PLGA Polymersomes as a Delivery Mechanism for CRISPR-Cas9 in HEK293-GFP Cells.
PENGUIN: Progressively Establish Novel Genetics Underlying Interrelation
PHF20 regulates starvation-induced autophagy by epigenetic control
PHOX2B non-polyalanine repeat mutations detected in autopsy cases of sudden unexpected infant death.
PIPSORT: Multi-ancestry fine-mapping to identify shared vs. ancestry-specific causal variants
POLD3 deficiency is associated with syndromic severe combined immunodeficiency including neurodevelopmental delay and hearing impairment.
PRS methods for equitable application across ancestrally diverse biobanks
PRS training and performance evaluation in two large Han Chinese cohorts
PTPRM is essential for dendritic arborization in neurons and its loss-of-function underlies neurodevelopmental disorders
PURE: Protein-trait association Using cis- and tRans-regulation Estimation.
PWAS with summary-level pQTL reference data of brain, CSF, and plasma tissues identifies 23 risk genes for Alzheimer’s disease dementia
Pacific Islander Founder Populations.
Pan Genomic Analyses and GWAS of Mycobacterium fortuitum from different isolation sources
Pan-cancer analysis reveals roles of retrotransposon-fusion RNAs
Pan-cancer and cross-population genome-wide association studies dissect shared genetic backgrounds underlying carcinogenesis.
Panel based sequencing of the undiagnosed leukodystrophies in Iran.
PangyPlot: A Visualization Tool for Exploring Pangenomes
Parent-of-origin assignment of allelic variants without parental data across multiple hereditary cancer syndromes
Parkinson's disease is associated with an imbalance in circular RNA expression
Participants and stakeholders views on feedback of genetics research findings of the H3Africa kidney disease research network, Ghana.
Partitioning genetic nurture: Investigating the specific parental traits driving the signal of indirect genetic effects on educational attainment
Partitioning the plasma proteome into genetically mediated causal signals and environmental sensors of complex disease risk
Pathogenic tandem splice acceptor variants escape screening byin silicotools
Pathway-Specific Polygenic Scores for Atrial Fibrillation Reveal Heterogeneous Genetic Risk Profiles
Pathway-based genetic risk score analyses identify biological pathways linking together hypertension and dementia-related cognitive impairment traits
Patient views and understanding of non-invasive prenatal screening in a safety net setting
Patient-derived iPSC model of CLN3 disease.
Pattern of genetic variation and population structure in Native Hawaiians
Patterns of population structure & genetic variation within the Saudi Arabian population.
Performance of Copy Number Variant Detection Tools in Clinical Applications: A Comparative Benchmark for Short-Read Whole Genome Sequencing
Performance of Somatic Structural Variant Calling in Lung Cancer using Oxford Nanopore Sequencing Technology
Performance of a genome-wide association study of neural tube defects allows an unbiased search for genetic contribution.
Performance of an artificial intelligence-enabled genome sequencing system for universal newborn screening, diagnosis, and precision medicine for 410 severe childhood genetic diseases in over 460,000 individuals.
Perinatal detection of HPV infection using a wearable device: Prevention of genomic instability using DNA editing.
Peripheral nervous system disruption revealed by tissue-specific transcriptome analysis in a humanized mouse model of familial dysautonomia
Personal transcriptome variation is poorly explained by current genomic deep learning models.
Personality traits are consistently associated with blood mitochondrial DNA copy number estimated from genome sequences in two genetic cohort studies.
Personalized precision medicine of strategic health action in Niemann-Pick type a/b disease: Case report
Personalized transcription factor binding from deep learning sheds light into the cis and trans regulation of gene expression.
Personalizing body mass index thresholds for obesity using polygenic scores.
Perturb-tracing enables scalable high-content discovery of 3D genome regulators
Perturbation of the mTOR signaling pathway due to missense variants in POLR3A cause primary microcephaly
Pervasive biases in GWAS using family history of Alzheimer’s disease as proxy phenotypes
Pharmacoepigenetics of antiepileptic drugs
Pharmacogenetic study identifies IL6R as a genetic risk factor for imatinib-induced severe skin rash in gastrointestinal stromal tumor
Pharmacogenetic variability of tuberculosis biomarkers in native and mestizo peruvian populations.
Pharmacogenetics of Tenofovir Diphosphate and Lamivudine Triphosphate Concentrations and Hepatitis B Virus Suppression During Antiretroviral Therapy in Patients with HIV/HBV Coinfection
Pharmacogenetics of cardiotoxicity in the treatment of black Zimbabwean breast cancer patients on doxorubicin
Pharmacogenomic Landscape of TNF Inhibitors in the Qatari Population
Pharmacogenomics Applied to Chronic Pain Treatment in Primary Care (PGx-ACT) trial; A Largely Virtual Randomized Trial
Pharmacogenomics in a dish: Lithium and valproic acid molecular response QTLs in human neural progenitor cells
Pharmacogenomics in the pediatric intensive care unit: an exome sequencing study
Pharmacogenomics: Targeted Sequencing, HPRC Genome Annotation and Clinical Utilization
Pharmacokinetics of Tamoxifen and its major metabolites and the effect of the African ancestry specific CYP2D6*17 variant on the formation of the active metabolite, endoxifen.
Phasing of millions of samples achieves near perfect accuracy, enabling parent-of-origin classification of variants
PhenoDB and CAVATICA: Container-Based Annotation and Analysis
Phenome-Wide Admixture Mapping in Hispanic/Latino(a) populations in a Large Hospital-Based Biobank
Phenome-wide analyses using clinical single nucleotide polymorphism data in pediatricepilepsy.
Phenome-wide association studies in the neonatal intensive care population identify phenotypic features that correlate with genetic diagnosis
Phenome-wide association studies of copy number variations in UK Biobank whole genomes
Phenome-wide association study of Sickle Cell Trait in NIH’s All of Us Research Program
Phenome-wide association study of asthma genetic loci reveals potential subtypes of disease.
Phenome-wide association study of immune genes with known eQTL and pQTL effects using the All of Us research project
Phenome-wide association study on polygenic risk score of obesity in Korean
Phenome-wide genetic associations of educational attainment with mental and behavioral disorders
Phenome-wide, metabolomic and proteomic association scan of SHROOM3 haplotypes based on imputed exonic variants.
Phenomic environment-wide association study to evaluate the complexity of the exposome
Phenotype associations from a comprehensive database of long-chain fatty acid oxidation disorder gene variants
Phenotype projections enable ultra-fast biobank-scale GWAS
Phenotype semantic similarity-based approach for patient clustering and disease prioritization
Phenotype-based prioritization strategy accelerates the identification of real causal variants in Titinopathy patients.
Phenotype-driven filtering of whole-exome data from English-speaking individuals with specific language impairment (SLI) exhibiting precise grammar impairment reveals novel rare variants associated with SLI.
Phenotypic Characterization of Patients with Cleidocranial Dysplasia (CCD)
Phenotypic Variations of a Novel TRMT10A Gene Mutation in a Consanguineous Malian Family
Physical linkage to resolve complex variants in the X-chromosome opsin locus
Pilot Return of Genetic Results to Million Veteran Program Participants: Opportunities and Challenges
Pipeline for improved genotype imputation using blended genome-exome sequencing and a diverse reference panel for large-scale population studies
Pitfalls in estimating SNP-based heritability for singleton genetic variants.
Placental DNA methylation changes as predicting markers for gastroschisis
Plasma Proteomic Signature, Clonal Hematopoiesis and Risk of Myeloid Neoplasm in 46,237 Healthy Individuals
Plasma proteomic biomarkers of aortic stenosis: A Mendelian randomization study.
Plasma proteomics and insulin sensitivity: evidence from observational, intervention and genetic studies
Plasticity of human microglia and their interaction with the brain immune system in AD
Pleiotropic effect of de novo variants in structural birth defects and neurodevelopment disorder
Pleiotropic relationship between Alzheimer's disease and eleven immune diseases.
Pleiotropy evaluation across four abdominal hernia subtypes detects novel loci and shared genetic basis.
Pleiotropy-robust methods for high-dimensional multivariable Mendelian randomization
Polygenic Interactive Discovery System: an interactive knowledgebase for exploring complex genetics networks
Polygenic Scores for DZ Twinning in Mothers of Naturally and ART Conceived Twins and Singletons
Polygenic and transcriptional risk scores identify chronic obstructive pulmonary disease subtypes
Polygenic etiology underlying atopic dermatitis and asthma in individuals with inborn errors of immunity and immune dysregulation
Polygenic risk advances overall risk stratification for Parkinson’s disease in combination with substantia nigra hyperechogenicity.
Polygenic risk and early diagnosis of diabetes.
Polygenic risk of idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis and COVID-19 severity
Polygenic risk score and age at onset in breast cancer: Insights from the Korean population.
Polygenic risk score performance in cancer prediction and association with other cancers and cardiometabolic disease
Polygenic risk score prediction accuracy convergence
Polygenic risk score substantially adds to prostate specific antigen for prostate cancer screening in US and UK biobanks
Polygenic risk scores for major depressive disorder provide insights into medication use prediction in EHR-linked biobank.
Polygenic risk scores predict blood pressure traits across the lifespan
Polygenic risk scores: Prediction of type 2 diabetes mellitus in multiplex families from the multiethnic GENNID study.
Polygenic scores enable discovery of widespread genetic interactions associated with quantitative traits in the UK Biobank.
Polymorphic short tandem repeats contribute to complex traits via multiple mechanisms.
Pontocerebellar hypoplasia type 9: A report of 17 new patients
Pooled and sex-specific European-ancestry GWAS meta-analyses of restless legs syndrome identify 164 risk loci, enabling advanced risk prediction, causal inference exploration, and treatment target identification
Pooling-based phylogenetic methods elucidate accelerated evolution of cis-regulatory elements.
Poor foundation in genetics and related disciplines a clog in the progress of bioinformatics and computational biology in Nigeria
Population Representation and Sampling in the Human Pangenome Reference
Population Scale Analysis of Copy Number Variation in 23andMe Research Cohort
Population genetics analysis of CLDN16 and CLDN19 of familial hypomagnesemia with hypercalciuria and nephrocalcinosis.
Population identification based on shared ancestry captures fine-scale population structure and population-specific medical insights across the US
Population specific breast cancer risk variants associated with estrogen-receptor negative breast cancer in women of African ancestry on chromosome 3q.
Population structure and genetic relatedness analysis of the UAE population.
Population-level transcriptomics links rare alternative polyadenylation variations to complex disease
Population-scale analysis of the trinucleotide repeat expansion in the Huntingtin gene (HTT) from 854,251 human exomes
Population-scale single-cell transcriptomics of clonal haematopoiesis.
Portability of tag SNPs used to determine ABO alleles across diverse populations: A systematic review.
Post-zygotic rescue of meiotic errors causes brain mosaicism and focal epilepsy
Potential treatment for CMT2S caused by IGHMBP2 cryptic splice variant, with ASO based therapeutic
Potentialmodificationsof ABCG2 rs4148155 and SLC22A12 rs75786299 on gout and nephrolithiasis: A hospital-based, case-control study.
Poverty shapes the transcriptome of immune cells.
Power of Inclusion: enhancing polygenic prediction with admixed individuals
Powerful detection of trans-eQTL partially explains missing heritability of gene expression
Practical recommendations for TOPMed metabolomics data.
Pre-processing and quality control of whole genome sequencing data: a case study using 9000 samples from the GENESIS-HD study.
Precise and reliable detection of regions of homozygosity and copy-neutral loss of heterozygosity in the human genome
Precise genetic instruments in Mendelian randomization improve causal estimates of complex traits: Exemplified by fresh fruit intake and diastolic blood pressure reduction
Precision Genomics in 9p Minus Syndrome
Precision risk profiling of Type 1 Diabetes individuals in the INNODIA, Danish and UK Biobank cohorts, using HLA imputation and haplotype analysis.
Preclinical development and in vivo delivery of antisense oligonucleotides for targeted NF1 exon 17 skipping.
Preclinical evaluation of JAK2 specific investigational oligonucleotide for the treatment of MDS/PV
Predicting Neurodegenerative Disease Risk using Feature Propagation on SNP Network with Brain Imaging Endophenotypes
Predicting Precision Inhaled Corticosteroids Response in Asthma Patients
Predicting chromatin interactions and gene expression by artificial intelligence methods
Predicting future obesity with the polygenic score in a Japanese working-age cohort
Predicting genetically regulated gene expression on the X chromosome
Predicting mechanisms of action at genetic loci associated with discordant effects on type 2 diabetes and abdominal fat accumulation.
Predicting mode of action of missense variants by graph representation of protein structural context
Predicting stature and estimating allele effect size in ancient humans.
Predicting the effects of genetic variants on chromatin accessibility with a deep learning approach
Predicting the functional impact of compound heterozygous genotypes from a large scale variant effect map
Predicting the pathogenicity of missense variants in AMPA receptors
Prediction of Alzheimer’s Disease Biomarkers Using Genomics and Cerebrospinal Fluid Metabolomics
Prediction of future Mendelian disease genes: implications for rare and common diseases
Prediction of future coronary artery disease risk in children from the Growing Up in Singapore Towards Healthy Outcomes birth cohort
Predictive imputation of gene expression from genotype data in the Louisiana osteoporosis study
Predictive modeling of alcohol consumption using blood-based biomarkers: A machine learning approach
Pregestational Diabetes Induces GATA4 Expression and Activity in Neonatal Heart and Associated with Cardiac Fibrosis
Prehistoric ancestries are consistently associated with the complex trait landscape in European Biobanks.
Preimplantation genetic testing data from 129,479 IVF embryos reveals the landscape of haplo- versus triplo-sensitivity prior to blastocyst formation
Preliminary Findings from a Pilot Study of Disability Identity Among Parents of Pediatric Participants in the Undiagnosed Diseases Network
Prenatal CMA using exon-level coverage for ‘disease gene’ CNV interrogations in the era of non-invasive prenatal testing
Prenatal exome sequencing and in vivo modeling in zebrafish reveals new candidate genes to explain fetal brain anomalies.
Prenatal gene editing for neurodevelopmental disease: ethical and scientific considerations.
Prevalence of ACMG secondary findings: Implications for population health and health disparities.
Prevalence of Germline Pathogenic Variants in Patients with Pancreatic Cancer: Results from a Single-Center Prospective Cohort Study in Mexico
Prevalence of germline pathogenic variants in cancer predisposition genes in a population-based study of renal cell carcinoma
Prevalence of overweight and obesity in individuals with Urea Cycle Disorders: results from a multicenter study of the Urea Cycle Disorders Consortium
Primary care patient and provider attitudes about population-based genetic testing and a chatbot to support informed decision-making.
Prioritization of causal genes expressed in liver associated with nonalcoholic fatty liver disease using a Mendelian randomization approach
Prioritizing candidate cancer driver mutations in ovarian cancer susceptibility regions.
Prioritizing coronary artery disease risk variants in atherosclerosis using deep learning models of chromatin accessibility in mouse
Prioritizing variants for disease-related function using ENCODE encyclopedia
Probabilistic identification of loci of interest from GWAS summary statistics with a Bayesian mixture model
Probing the role of structural variants in adaptation in Holocene Western Eurasia.
Process steps and resource requirements associated with innovative genetic testing: A time and motion study in the clinical sequencing evidence-generating research (CSER) consortium
Products of Conception analysis by chromosomal microarray: a single center experience.
Profiling adaptive immune receptor repertoire (AIRR) in Graves' disease patients with antithyroid drug (ATD)-induced agranulocytosis.
Profiling of stranded RNA biotypes during early mouse gonad development
Profiling senescent cells in snRNA-seq data.
Profiling the inflammatory bowel disease subtypes using genetics, serum biomarkers, and smoking information
Project Genetic Inclusion by Virtual Evaluation
Promoter Usage Quantitative Trait Loci in Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease
Promoter region functional polymorphism (30bpuVNTR) of monoamine oxidase A gene association with serum protein levels in psychiatric disorders
Prostate cancer polygenic risk score associated with risk of upgrading and prostate tumor features in men on active surveillance.
Protective Rare Variants for Cognitive Preservation in the Mid-Western Amish
Protein Detection Correlations: Examining the Correlation of Protein Detection in High-throughput Proteomics Platforms in Million Veterans Program Proteomics Study.
Protein family FAM241 (C4orf32 and C10orf35): a potential role in lysosomes.
Protein-truncating variants in BSN are associated with severe obesity, type 2 diabetes and fatty liver disease
Proteogenomic Mendelian Randomization identifies putative novel drug targets for chronic kidney disease
Proteogenomics often fails to identify clinically valuable targets: a Mendelian randomization study.
Proteome-Wide Association Study Using Local and Distal SNPS and applied to Blood Cell and Lipid-Related Traitsin the Women’s Health Initiative Study
Proteome-derived unsupervised learning identifies biologically distinctive subtypes of Parkinson’s disease.
Proteome-scale probabilistic modeling of human genetic variation discovers novel developmental disorder genes
Proteome-wide Mendelian randomization identifies COL6A3-derived endotrophin as a clinically actionable mediator for the effect of obesity on coronary artery disease
Proteomic Changes in the Development of Type 2 Diabetes
Proteomic analysis reveals differential protein expression with respect to blood transfusion in Sickle Cell Disease (SCD) patients.
Proteomics of Urinary Exosomes Reveals Impaired Protein Trafficking in HPS-1 Renal Epithelial Cells.
Providing trainees hands-on experience in clinical genetics research through a case report writing workshop increases trainee engagement in clinical genetics.
Pseudotime analysis of post-mortem brain RNA profiles identify FMOD as a key gene in Alzheimer's disease
Psychological and behavioral outcomes of returning all clinically relevant secondary findings from genomic sequencing: Preliminary results from the Incidental Genomics RCT
Public opinions and attitudes toward non-invasive prenatal testing on reddit: Content and sentiment analysis.
Puzzling out the genetic bases of hereditary cardiovascular diseases: Application of an integrative approach in a deeply clinically characterised Italian cohort.
PyGAD machine learning algorithm improve COVID-19 prediction accuracy
Quality assessment of DNA and RNA for NGS libraries using Agilent Automated Electrophoresis Systems.
Quantification of the escape from X chromosome inactivation with the million cell-scale human blood single-cell RNA-seq datasets reveals heterogeneity of escape across immune cells
Quantifying gene loss across 462 mammalian species to capture human gene essentiality
Quantifying individual-level mosaic chromosomal alteration fitness: genetic determinants and clinical consequences
Quantifying the extent of pleiotropy using rare variant association data in 394,841 human exomes
Quantifying the incredible pleiotropy of microRNAs: focusing ChatGPT on the literature
Quantitative and qualitative contextualization of polygenic scores in genetically diverse and admixed populations.
Quantitative characterization of on-target and off-target variation induced by CRISPR+Cas9 systems at the single-cell resolution.
Quantitative evaluation of DNA damage and repair dynamics as predictors of clinical phenotypes in individuals with germline PTEN variants.
Quantitative profiling of hepatitis B virus transcripts in human liver transcriptome data
Quantitative trait loci mapping of circulating metabolites in cerebrospinal fluid reveals insights into biological mechanisms
Quantitative trait loci mapping: Identifying inbred strain-specific loci that modify cleft secondary palate expression inPrdm16csp1mouse mutants.
Quercetin ameliorates the autoimmune, lipodystrophic and neurodegenerative phenotype observed in CLEC16A KO mice.
RAB8A as a novel regulator of MED16 and its effect on 5’-deoxy-5-fluorouridine response.
RASopathy-linked variants in men with spermatogenic failure
RDAP: a web-based pipeline to analyze RNA-seq data
REMETA: Efficient meta-analysis of gene-based tests in large-scale genetic studies.
RGX-111: An Investigational Gene Therapy For The Treatment of Severe Mucopolysaccharidosis Type I (MPS I): Interim Analysis of Data From The First In Human Study
RNA Editing modulates inflammation in Parkinson’s disease: analysis of adenosine-to-inosine RNA editing in human iPSC-derived astrocytes and neurons.
RNA Sequencing as a Routine Diagnostic Tool in Medical Genetic Practice, Solving A Case with Gaucher Disease
RNA sequencing for the diagnosis of scoliosis
RNA-based diagnosis of a child with SMA disease
RNA-seq based rare diseases diagnostics at the Pan-European consortium Solve-RD
RNA-seq data analysis identifies blood-based biomarkers for diagnosis and disease progression of Alzheimer’s disease.
RNAseq driven diagnosis of NBAS deficiency expands the phenotypic spectrum of disease.
Racial Disparity in the Diagnosis of Mitochondrial Disease
Racial differences in UGT1A1 allele frequencies and its potential impact in pharmacogenetic testing for cancer chemotherapy drugs.
Rapid DNA extraction from buccal swab samples: enhancing efficiency and performance.
Rapid Diagnosis and Longitudinal Monitoring of Bacteremia in Pediatric Septic Arthritis and Acute Hematogenous Osteomyelitis Cases Using Longread Sequencing
Rapid generation of transgenic mouse mimicking variant of uncertain significance, VUS, clarifies its pathogenicity
Rapid single -omic interpretation and analysis is a precondition for synthesis of large scale multiomics conclusions
Rapid whole-genome sequencing in children in acute care in a universal health care system: Physicians underestimate parental expectations and concerns about the impact on their child’s care
Rare Heterozygous DMRT1 Variants In Spermatogenic Failure And Primary Ovarian Insufficiency (POI) cases
Rare Recurrent Copy Number Variations in Children with Neurodevelopmental Disorders
Rare Variant Genetic Evidence and Drug Approval Success Rates: Insights from the UK Biobank
Rare coding variants in PREB associate with sex-specific effects on LDL cholesterol.
Rare coding variants in the CTSO gene, putatively involved in arterial remodelling, in familial forms of intracranial aneurysm
Rare de novo deleterious variants increase risk of neural tube defects.
Rare genetic determinants of clonal hematopoiesis and progression to hematologic malignancies in 479,117 individuals
Rare genetic variation in gonadotropin signaling identified in women with PCOS.
Rare missense variants in protein intrinsically disordered regions: impact on condensates and common diseases
Rare pathogenic missense variants in LMNA identified in women with polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS)
Rare variant analysis of 30,648 heart failure cases using exome sequences from multi-ancestry population-based biobanks and clinical trials
Rare variant analysis of MRI-derived fat distribution phenotypes strengthens detected effects compared to larger meta-analysis.
Rare variant and gene-based analysis in Early-Onset Alzheimer Disease.
Rare variant annotation tools: a practical guide for researchers.
Rare variant association analyses of plasma protein levels in a multi-ancestry cohort.
Rare variant association analyses reveal the significance of carbohydrate metabolism in severe adolescent idiopathic scoliosis
Rare variant contribution to the heritability of coronary artery disease based on 22,443 whole genome sequences from the NHLBI TOPMed Program.
Rare variant dosage in sudden cardiac death-related genes increases risk of sudden cardiac death among hypertrophic cardiomyopathy patients.
Rare variant enrichment analysis in pediatric European Moyamoya Angiopathy patients
Rare variant imputation with the TOPMed reference panel combined with whole-genome sequence data in 52,658 type 2 diabetes cases and 381,683 controls identifies novel rare variant associations and informs the spectrum of pathogenicity in monogenic .
Rare variant pathways: Analyzing gene set burden of biological pathways associated with rare variants in Parkinson’s disease.
Rare variants affecting telomere length and disease identified through multi-omic modeling
Rare variants associated with prostate cancer risk discovered from 269,920 male exomes influence risk of prostate cancer metastasis
Rare variants enhance the ability to identify associated phenotypes in disease networks
Rare variants from genes implicated in GWAS of hearing loss, but not from Mendelian hearing loss genes, are associated with cisplatin-induced hearing loss
Rare variants in PPFIA3 are associated with delayed development, intellectual disability, autistic features, and epilepsy
Rare-variant region-based tests in whole-genome sequencing of ~490,000 UK Biobank participants
RarePlasmodium falciparumcoronin gene mutations following ACT treatment of malaria in South WesternNigeria.
Rationale synthetic design of a broadly expressed NRF1-array mini-promoter for application to disease modeling and gene therapy.
Re-classification of PMS2 Kozak sequence variants using a fast and easy in vitro assay.
Real-time polygenic prediction for streaming data.
Reanalyzing legacy GWAS dataset using TOPMed imputation yields novel loci for orofacial clefting.
Recombination and its evolution drive diversity in mammals, and beyond
Reconstructing Western and Northern Mexico’s Past through the PIPANOM Project.
Reconstructing parent genotypes at direct testing-level accuracy using siblings and other relatives
Reconstructing the cis-regulatory landscape of archaic hominids using deep learning
Reconstructing the genetic history of Ancestral South Indians and Ancestral Austro-Asiatics
Recurrent CNVs and psychiatric disorders: iPSYCH2015 case-cohort study provides evidence of significant associated risk increases for ASD, ADHD, and SSD but not MDD, while highlighting locus contents as the significant predictor of CNV .
Recurrent and non-recurrent copy number variants in American Indian tribes with substance use disorders
Recurrent spontaneous abortion related to balanced translocation of chromosomes - A case report
Redefining control selection: Resolving population label issues in genetic studies reliant on genetic data with a low breadth of coverage.
Reduced clic4 and itgb1 expression in a zebrafish crispant model of crim1 loss of function.
Reduced genomic diversity in functionally relevant genes modifies the risk of neurodevelopmental phenotypes compared to cancer in individuals with germline PTEN variants
Reduced transferability of tobacco and alcohol use polygenic scores across populations
RefSeq Annotation and Curation of the T2T-CHM13 Human Genome Assembly
Refining Telomere-to-Telomere Human Genome References: Insights from a novel high accuracy sequencing-by-binding platform
Refining the genetic architecture of protein quantitative trait loci
Regional European genetic ancestry predicts type I interferon level and risk of severe viral infection.
Regional burden analysis of functional variants reveals genomic hotspots enriched for regulatory elements and overlapping with recurrent pathogenic CNVs.
Regional principal components enhance cell type-specific detection of Alzheimer's disease-associated DNA methylation changes.
Regulatory interactions of autism-associated neuronal enhancers implicate novel genes in autism etiology.
Reimagining gene-environment interaction analysis for human complex traits
Relating enhancer genetic variation across mammals to complex phenotypes using machine learning
Relationships between asthma biomarkers and immune cell DNA methylation profiles in a deeply phenotyped twin-family cohort
Relative Telomere Length shortening and association with DNA promoter differential methylation in Thyroid Cancer.
Relative contribution of variant prioritization and phenotype similarity to performance of automatic genome analysis algorithms
Replication analysis of blood trait associations in the All of Us dataset
Reporting the common African PMS2 variant c.2182_2184delACTinsG results with 100% confidence.
Repository of Alzheimer's Disease and Related Dementia (RADR) and its application to diverse populations
Reproducible causal genetic variants discovery of Alzheimer's disease via knockoffs.
Reproducible human methylation variation fine-mapped to epigenetic haplotypes by 5-base HiFi sequencing
Residual Neuropathy target esterase activity predicts phenotypic onset among PNPLA6 disorders
Residual risk of clinically significant copy number variations in fetuses with nasal bone absence or hypoplasia after excluding non-invasive prenatal screening-detectable findings
Resolution of non-coding variants by RNA sequencing in rare disease.
Resolving missing heritability among individuals with oculocutaneous albinism: A rare haplotype, comprised of two common TYR variants (p.S192Y and p.R402Q), and evidence of OCA individuals with digenic inheritance.
Resources for archiving and analysis of human data in Japan
Response eQTLs in primary human chondrocytes identify novel putative osteoarthritis risk genes
Response to anti-IL17 therapy in inflammatory disease is not strongly impacted by genetic background
Responsible and related genes for triplet repeat diseases are involved in the ubiquitin proteasome system
Results from the PROPEL 2 dose-finding study: oral infigratinib leads to significant increases inheight velocity with good tolerability in children with achondroplasia
Results of survey about concerns and motivation of the Latvian general population and researchers towards citizen-science research projects in the field of genomics.
Retroelement analyses identify diagnostic and therapeutic opportunities in genetic disorders
Return of individual genetic results in 47,107 individuals with autism.
Returning genomic results to consumers: The DTC approach
Revealing associations between gut microbiome and host bone mineral density via SHAP values
Revealing clinically-relevant subtypes of complex disease via contrastive learning
Revealing disease genetics: unveiling genetic architecture through differential copy number variation in admixed populations
Revealing the Extensive Allelic Heterogeneity and Impact of Mobile Elements Across 64 Diverse Human Haplotypes
Revealing the hidden costs: Exploring the financial toxicity of hereditary cancer syndromes
Revealing variable genetic association patterns in COVID-19 patient subgroups: A machine learning approach in genome wide association studies
Revisiting statistical modeling of sQTLs leads to significant improvement in identification and characterization of RNA splicing associated variants.
Revisiting the association of autoantibodies with HLA-DRB1 in rheumatoid arthritis: non-shared epitope alleles *09 and *15 associated with elevated levels of anti-CCP2 antibodies.
Rhinovirus-activated epithelial cells likely drive genetic susceptibility to childhood-onset asthma
Risk of Alzheimer’s disease associated with ABCA7 tandem repeat expansions across multiple ethnicities.
Risk of second primary cancers after a diagnosis of first primary cancer: a pan-cancer analysis and mendelian randomization study
Risk stratification for different subtypes of ischemic stroke based on polygenic risk score and carotid intima-media thickness
Robust inference with summary statistics knockoffs in genome-wide association studies
Robust prediction of cancer-associated Venous Thromboembolism (VTE) using routinely-collected clinical and panel-sequencing data
Role of Epigenetics in the Oral Health Status of Monozygotic and Dizygotic Twins - A Comparative Study
Role of Pharmacogenomics in Oncology
Role of genetic and environmental variation on gene expression in whole blood from ethnically diverse African populations
Roles of Genetic Ancestry and Hypopigmenting Alleles on Skin Color in a Caribbean Native American Population
SAIGE-QTL: scalable and accurate expression quantitative trait locus mapping for single-cell studies
SCiMS: Sex calling for metagenomic sequences.
SEQUIN: interactive web app for rapid, reproducible bulk and single cell RNA-Seq analysis
SERPINE3 is an RPE-specific protease inhibitor critical for retinal function
SGMS2and Juvenile Open-Angle Glaucoma: A Novel Connection in a Multi-generational Filipino Family
SHOX duplication and biochemical findings of short-chain acyl-CoA dehydrogenase deficiency (SCADD) in a patient with Angelman syndrome.
SIGMA leverages protein structural information to predict the pathogenicity of missense variants
SMAD4-related Juvenile Polyposis - Hereditary Haemorrhagic Telangiectasia has a very high risk of gastrointestinal and pulmonary complications.
SMYD5 is a novel epigenetic gatekeeper of the mild hypothermia response
SNPred outperforms other ensemble-based SNV pathogenicity predictors and elucidates the challenges in performance evaluation of predictive models using ClinVar.
SOX7: Novel autistic gene identified by analysis of multi-omics data and human brain organoids.
SP7/osterix neomorphic mutation S309W-zebrafish model recapitulates human high bone turnover disease
SPEN deficiency contributes to the development of cleft palate in humans and mice
STDCC: Supervised Tensor Decomposition tool for studying Cell-cell Communication using single-cell RNA-seq data
SYCP2 variants present with variable age-related progressive SPGF and male infertility
Safety evaluation for CRISPR/Cas9-based PD-1 gene-editing products
Safety evaluation of elevated fetal hemoglobin level: Evidence from human genetics
Safety of a reduced infusion time of Agalsidase Beta in the treatment of Fabry Disease: An Observational Study
Saliva as a sample type for the evaluation of miRNA biomarkers using small RNA sequencing
SaseR: a novel tool forfast and Scalable Aberrant Splicing and Expression Retrieval in R
Saturation mutagenesis data facilitate the interpretation of non-coding variants in an IRF6 enhancer associated with nonsyndromic cleft-lip w/o cleft palate.
ScISOr-ATAC reveals convergent and divergent splicing and chromatin specificities between cell types across cortical regions and disease states.
ScMetaBrain: Federated single-cell consortium for cell-type specific eQTL analysis of neurological disease variants.
Scalable Nanopore long-read sequencing to resolve complex regions in Parkinson's disease
Scalable Nanopore sequencing of human genomes provides a comprehensive view of haplotype-resolved variation and methylation
Scalable count-based models improve power and robustness to detect eQTLs in large-scale single-cell data
Scalable knockoff-based framework for summary statistics analysis
Scalable summary statistics-based heritability estimation method with individual genotype level accuracy
Schizophrenia and long-read RNA-seq: Analysis of differential isoform usage in the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex.
Scientists' views on whether genome editing warrants unique governance guidelines.
Screening Copy Number Variation with an Autoencoder
Screening for polygenic risk for eight common conditions in an unselected and diverse primary care patient population
Screening over 600 candidate genes for disease-causing variants in male factor infertility.
Search for high-risk melanoma susceptibility genes: a GenoMEL project combining data from 731 families
Search strategy for oligogenic models of cardiomyopathy
Selected aspects of the process of implementation of tandem repeats characterisation into routine laboratory testing processes based on massively parallel sequencing
Selecting Covariates for Genome-Wide Association Studies
Selective dynamics of interruptions at short tandem repeats.
Semiautomated Interpretation of Genomic Disease Contribution to Unknown Causes of Infant Mortality.
Sensitivity of MR analyses to pQTL instrumental variable selection contributes to lack of replication in heart failure
Sequence-based deep learning for predicting gene expression from personal genomes
Serum IgA and Gd-IgA1 levels associate with pulmonary phenotypes. The Multi-Ethnic Study of Atherosclerosis (MESA) Lung Study
Serum sphingolipid levels are modified by HLA-DRB1*15:01 and HLA-A*02:01 in multiple sclerosis.
Severe COVID-19 infection Increases Long-term Cardiovascular Risk Through Gene-Pathogen Interaction with ABO Blood Type
Severe respiratory phenotype in KCNH1-related Temple Baraitser Syndrome
Severus: a computational tool to characterize complex structural variations from long-read sequencing.
Sex chromosome overdosage impairs neuronal synapses in human iPSC-derived neurons and brain organoids.
Sex differences in genetic architecture of clinical laboratory tests: A lab wide analysis in the electronic health record
Sex differences in placental gene expression in hypertensive versus normotensive pregnancies
Sex differences in the genetic architecture of Alzheimer's disease cognitive endophenotypes.
Sex differences in the pleiotropy of hearing problems with imaging-derived phenotypes: a brain-wide imaging study.
Sex differences in transcriptomes: Pan-cancer analysis of The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA)
Sex, onset-age, and APOE-stratified genetic association studies of dementia reveal novel risk loci in African Americans
Sex-biased gene expression and gene-regulatory networks of sex-biased adverse event drug targets and drug metabolism genes
Sex-specific Associations of Gene Expression in Brains with Alzheimer’s Disease Pathology and Cognitive Performance within X Chromosome.
Sex-specific DNA methylation marks in Rab-regulatory genes underly sex-biased risk of recurrence in unprovoked venous thromboembolism
Sex-specific association between anthropomorphic traits and intraocular pressure in the Canadian Longitudinal Study on Aging: A bidirectional Mendelian randomization study.
Sex-stratified analysis of adipose cell-types and cell states identify genes underlying transitions from obesity to its key comorbidity, type 2 diabetes
Sex-stratified rare-variant association analysis using 419,000 UK Biobank exomes reveals sex-biased genetic associations with disease and quantitative traits.
Sexual dimorphism in Early Neolithic Europe was driven by culture, not genetics or environment.
Sexually dimorphic and cell type specific gene expression signatures of disease progression in Rett syndrome mouse model and human Rett cortices
Shared and distinct natural selection signatures within the Japanese population.
Shared genetic architecture and pleiotropy across uterine fibroids and hypertension.
Shared genetic architecture between congenital kidney defects and autism spectrum disorders.
Shared genetic associations between asthma and COPD stratified by age of onset of asthma.
Shared genetic effect of kidney function on bipolar disorder and major depressive disorder: a large-scale genome-wide cross-trait analysis
Shared genetic factors between type 1 diabetes and co-occurring autoimmune diseases.
Shared genetic signal discovery in multi-trait analysis of lung and liver fibrosis.
Shared loci between post-traumatic stress disorder and cardiovascular phenotypes using EHR and heart imaging data from more than 1 million participants
Shared mutational burden within human Spina Bifida cohort and genetic similarities with comorbidities
Shared polygenic risk and causal inference between kidney function and inflammatory biomarkers: a large-scale genome-wide cross-trait analysis
Shared sex-specific functional genetic risk factors in self-reported clinical depression and Alzheimer’s disease.
Short peptides targeting MECP2 Rett syndrome mutations through phage display
Short tandem repeat calling in patients and populations: opportunities and challenges.
Short tandem repeats and their phenotypic associations in 200,000 participants in the UK Biobank
Sickle cell trait insights from the All of Us research program.
Significance of diversity and inclusion in the genomic study of speech and language disorder
Significant enhancement of eQTL and disease trait findings achieved by analysis of 2,344 adipose samples.
Simplifying Clinical Genetic Testing: The Impact of HiFi Sequencing on Diagnoses and Variant Discovery
Single AAV-mediated miniaturized CRISPR activation for the treatment of congenital muscular dystrophy.
Single Cell Multiomics Profiling of Visceral Adipose Tissue Reveals New Insights into the Genetic Regulation of Cardiometabolic Disease
Single Nuclei Transcriptome-Wide Association Study Atlas of the Human Brain Uncovers Cell-Type-Specific Contributions to Schizophrenia and Alzheimer’s Disease
Single cell RNA sequencing reveals heterogeneity across the intestines in treatment naïve individuals diagnosed with Crohn's Disease.
Single cell RNA-seq processing pipeline and data integration method decisions impact significance of immune cell clusters in the uterus
Single cell analysis of pancreatic islet cells in type 2 diabetes reveals pathogenic mechanisms enriched in populations of African ancestry.
Single cell dissection of smoking and drinking addiction associated loci in multi-ancestry genetic studies.
Single cell long read mRNA isoform regulation is pervasive across mammalian brain regions, cell types, and development.
Single cell sequencing as a universal variant interpretation assay
Single exonic CNV analysis uncovers masked complex genome rearrangements in recessive disorder
Single nucleus RNA-sequencing of a longitudinal subcutaneous adipose tissue cohort discovers an adipocyte subcellular state with 89 genes for a large weight loss outcome in bariatric surgery.
Single nucleus multi-omics profiling reveals epigenomic and transcriptional dynamics in Alzheimer's disease
Single-cell RNA Sequencing Data-based Drug Repurposing for Alzheimer’s Disease Using Gene Expression data of ROSMAP Cohort
Single-cell RNA sequencing reveals novel cellular factors for response to immunosuppressive therapy in aplastic anemia
Single-cell RNA-seq analysis of microglia reveals functional heterogeneity in the substantia nigra of Parkinson's disease donors.
Single-cell RNA-sequencing analysis reveals the role of endothelial cells in aneurysm pathogenesis in autosomal recessive cutis laxa type 1B syndrome.
Single-cell Transcriptomic Profiling of Colorectal Cancer Tumors Reveals Potential Biomarkers
Single-cell analysis of the human infant airway epithelium reveals heterogenous cell subpopulations during RSV infection
Single-cell analysis of the human neonatal infant airway epithelium reveals age-related changes in cellular composition and transcriptional programming
Single-cell analysis reveals a population of Th17 tissue-resident memory T cells in the small bowel of Crohn's disease.
Single-cell dissection of bipolar disorder
Single-cell eQTL mapping across brain cell types reveals context-specific genetic regulation in AD genetics
Single-cell eQTL mapping identifies cell type- and disease-specific genetic control of COVID-19 severity.
Single-cell eQTL mapping in healthy and Crohn’s-afflicted terminal ileum offers novel insights into inflammatory bowel diseases
Single-cell epigenomic changes in Alzheimer's diseases across 1 million cells and six brain regions
Single-cell integrated RNA-sequencing and ATAC-sequencing in human motor cortex identifies cell-specific genetic drivers of ALS
Single-cell level analysis of obese individuals’ two main fat depots discovers differences in cell-type marker genes and their genetic risks for obesity.
Single-cell long-read sequencing in human cerebral organoids uncovers autism-associated exons
Single-cell multi-omic dissection of opioid use disorder reveals gene regulatory circuitry changes across multiple brain regions
Single-cell multiomics integrative analysis identified shared and distinct genetic etiologies across neurodegenerative diseases
Single-cell sQTL links cell type-specific regulation of splicing to complex diseases
Single-cell sequencing analysis of heteroplasmy distribution in mitochondrial retinopathy.
Single-cell spatial multiomics uncovers new mechanisms of myelin deforming diseases
Single-cell transcriptomic profiling of human pancreatic islets reveals genes responsive to glucose exposure over 24 hours
Single-cell transcriptomics reveals interactions of the tumor microenvironment and infiltrating immune cells in high-grade glioma
Single-locus imputation of ancient African DNA using novel regression-based approach
Single-nucleus RNA-seq reveals key contributors in Duchenne muscular dystrophy
Single-nucleus chromatin accessibility variations implicate microglia and deep-layer excitatory neurons for major depressive disorder.
Single-nucleus multi-omics profiling across 49 individuals of Hispanic ancestry reveals cell-specific skeletal muscle insulin-responsive gene regulatory signatures.
Sixteen years’ experience of SMA carrier screening and prenatal diagnosis in Iranian populations.
Skipping of COL4A4 exon 27 is associated with hematuria
Small molecule inhibition of Plasmodium AP2-I&BDP1 genes in P. berghei-infected mice
Snijders Blok Campeau syndrome: Description of 18 additional individuals with variants in CHD3 and literature review
Snord116 is a light sensing regulator of gene expression, behavior, and metabolism
SoMAS: Finding somatic mutations associated with alternative splicing in human cancers
SoMoSeq- A novel method for genotype informed single cell RNA sequencing of mosaic brain tissue
Social and psychological modifiers of genetic literacy in general and research samples
Social science perspective
Solving challenging titinopathy cases via multi-omics
Somatic DNA repeat expansion underlies Huntington’s Disease neuropathology
Somatic genetic rescue in a patient with RUSAT2 syndrome carrying a MECOM LoF variant
Somatic mutations in hereditary hemorrhagic telangiectasia arteriovenous malformations.
Spatial omics of acute myocardial infarction reveals novel sites of immune cell infiltration.
Spatial transcriptomics analysis reveals pathology-specific alveolar niches in pulmonary fibrosis
Spatially-resolved, single-cell transcriptomics detects cell types and novel cell states in kidney diseases
Sperm sequencing reveals extensive positive selection in the human germline.
Spinal muscular atrophy 5q: molecular, clinical, and functional classification in a cohort of Colombian patients.
Spinocerebellar ataxia 27B: describing the phenotypic spectrum in an expanding founder French-Canadian cohort
Spit take: Improving high molecular weight DNA extraction from shelf-stable saliva for long-read sequencing.
Splice Mutations and Digital Anomalies Extend the Genotypic and Phenotypic Spectrum of Kim-Gusella Syndrome in PHF21A Patients
Splice variants in silent genes resolved with CRISPR activation
Splicing response QTLs identify putative osteoarthritis risk genes
Spontaneous induction of Chromosome 1 Trisomy in reprogrammed iPSC line is associated with accelerated growth and Proliferation.
Spot-level cell type deconvolution methods using Visium immunofluorescence data on the human anterior hippocampus.
Stable Overexpression of HDM2 Differentially Modulates the Molecular Phenotype of Non-Small Lung Cancer Cells of Varying p53 Genotypes.
Statistical Mechanics of coding variants quantitatively predicts gene influence in select populations, including Parkinson’s Disease cohorts.
Statistical analysis of cell type-specific spatial expression patterns for spatial transcriptomics.
Statistical challenges with GWAS on ratio traits obscure the interpretation of many published associations
Statistical inference and downstream analysis of cell-type-specific co-expressions from single cell RNA-sequencing data
Statistical physics of fitness landscape discovers risk genes and pathways specific to male and female with Alzheimer’s Disease.
Statistically and functionally fine-mapped blood mRNA and protein expression QTLs from 1,405 humans reveals their distinct regulation patterns and disease relevance
Statistically robust familial variant analysis
StocSum: stochastic summary statistics for whole genome sequencing studies.
Strain-specific structural variants in mice impact CTCF-mediated transcriptional control.
Strategies for improving variant calling on the sex chromosomes
Streamlined RNA-Seq workflow reveals extracellular vesicle transcriptome insights.
Strengths and limitations of using the CARTaGENE population-based cohort to assess carrier rates for recessive disorders in Québec
Structural and functional insights from single cell transcriptional profiles of pituitary tumors
Structural and non-coding variants increase the diagnostic yield of clinical whole genome sequencing for rare diseases
Structural bioinformatics for deep variant phenotyping of SMARCA4.
Structural similarity search in a comprehensive database of the human proteome.
Structural variant adaptation between the Peruvian Andes and Amazon using long-read sequencing
Structural variants are rare sources of molecular diagnosis for secondary findings.
Structural variation in CYP2A6 is associated with risk of lung, but not ovarian, cancer in the UK Biobank
Structural variation in Keratoconus
Structure and function of mammalian chitinases: Insights from chimeric analysis.
Studies of Linkage and Polygenic Risk to Improve Genetic Testing for Cardiovascular Disease Across Populations
Study of multi-omic variation across diverse peoples of rural Cameroon
Study of the cause of death in patients with ATR-X syndrome in Japan
Subcontinental admixture in Europeans and European Americans can affect GWAS findings and polygenic score performance.
Subnuclear pathways of mRNA travels within the nucleus
Subtle Cellular Phenotypes Inform Pathological and Benign Genetic Mutants in the Iduronidase-2 Sulfatase Gene
Subtyping complex traits using tissue-specific polygenic risk scores.
Suppression of dominant-negative SPTAN1 allele in patient-derived cell lines via antisense oligonucleotide therapy
Suppressors of TAZ-mediated cellular dysfunction identified through genetic interaction screening
Survival GWAS with inverse probability weighing to estimate population-unbiased polygenic risk scores of psychiatric disorders using the iPSYCH case-cohort of Danish nation-wide register data.
Syndrome-informed phenotyping identifies a polygenic background for achondroplasia-like facial variation in the general population.
Synthetic Slope Analysis Empowers GWAS of Physiological Decline
System Requirements to Support Primary Care Pediatricians in the Return of Genome Informed Risk Assessment
Systematic Integration of Multi-omics Data for the Study of Coronary Artery Disease and Subclinical Atherosclerosis
Systematic Pan-European reanalysis of 6,004 genetically undiagnosed rare disease families yields 506 new diagnoses
Systematic analysis of mitochondrial carrier functional redundancy using complex genetic interaction analysis.
Systematic analysis of the impact of short tandem repeats on gene expression
Systematic curation and validation of pathogenic and likely pathogenic 3’ and 5’ untranslated region variants using deep learning artificial intelligence models.
Systematic discovery of gene-environment interactions underlying the human plasma proteome
Systematic genome-wide association scans across binary variables in the Canadian Longitudinal Study on Aging (CLSA).
Systematic identification of recessive developmental disorders caused by noncoding variants in trans with coding variants in 4,073 trios.
Systematic identification of silencers in the human genome
Systematic phenotype and genotype characterization of Moebius syndrome
Systematic screen of eQTL variants across cell types uncovers novel functional variants
Systematic use of NGS as significant impact factor for diagnosis of rare diseases in national health care system
Systems biology approach reveals intricate DNA methylation dynamics in skeletal muscle with age.
Systolic blood pressure, preeclampsia, and leiomyoma genes - a multivariable Mendelian randomization and mediation analysis
TDP-43 chronic deficiency leads to genome-wide dysregulation of the transcriptome and transposable elements by affecting R-loop and 5hmC crosstalk.
TGFBR1*6A and risk for colorectal cancer
TIVAN-indel a computational framework for annotating and predicting non-coding regulatory small insertions and deletions
TMEM106B and APOE increase risk for TDP-43 and HS pathologies underlying Alzheimer’s Disease Related Dementias
TNNI1 variants disrupt sarcomere contractility resulting in hypo- and hypercontractile muscle disease
TP53 exon 6 and intron 6 microdeletions spanning splicing regulatory elements lead to exon skipping.
TRuc: A GraphAligner based method to characterize tandem repeat expansions from Nanopore sequencing.
TYRA-300 Demonstrates Significant Increases in Growth and Bone Length in a Mouse Model of FGFR3-Related Skeletal Dysplasia.
Tabular Encoding of Rare-Variant Genotype Data for Enabling Efficient Random Access in Memory and Analysis of Rare Allele Sharing
Taming the Titans: Building an Ecosystem for Massive Scale Single-Cell RNA-Seq Data Analysis and Visualization
TargPred: a web-based platform to uncover SNP-gene associations within genomic regulatory blocks
Targeted CRISPRa/CRISPRi screen confirms functional SNPs and identifies novel target genes at multiple RCC susceptibility loci.
Targeted exome sequencing in fetuses with ultrasound findings: A powerful tool in prenatal diagnosis.
Targeted long-read sequencing of C9orf72 in multiple human tissues.
Targeted mass spectrometry-based proteogenomics approach for large-scale detection of protein isoforms colocalized with disease
Targeted sequencing of 50+ pathogenic repeat expansions using Twist target enrichment and PacBio HiFi sequencing.
Targeted sequencing of ATM for the genetic diagnosis of Ataxia Telangiectasia - A pilot evaluation of oxford nanopore technology
Targeted single-cell transcriptome sequencing characterizes 1 million healthy and leukemic bone marrow mononuclear cells.
Targeting and comprehensive characterization of pharmacogenes using Oxford Nanopore Technologies’ adaptive sampling
Technical comparison between short-read and long-read RNA sequencing.
Technical overview of machine learning pipelines used for assay predictions.
Telmisartan reduces T2D incidences in electronic health records
Telomere dynamics in aging and cancer by nanopore long-read sequencing.
Telomere-to-telomere, pangenomic references improve eQTL power and enable the detection of sex-specific eQTLs in the developing human brain.
Temporal changes in gene expression and chromatin accessibility in the mouse gut identify candidate postnatal modifiers of Hirschsprung disease (HSCR)
Temporal landscape of the Alzheimer's Disease plasma proteome: an 1800-sample cohort study
Temporal profiling of transcriptomics and chromatin accessibility during development in fetal 22q11.2 deletion syndrome reveled by single-cell sequencing
Temporally specific single-cell epigenomic and chromosomal architecture reconfiguration in the developing human hippocampus and prefrontal cortex
Tensor decomposition of multi-dimensional splicing events across multiple tissues to identify splicing-mediated risk genes associated with complex traits
Testing an autism spectrum disorder polygenic score in individuals with African-European admixed ancestries
Testing for differences in Hardy-Weinberg Disequilibrium between groups
Testing for differences in polygenic scores in the presence of confounding.
The Alzheimer’s Disease Sequencing Project - Discovery, Discovery Extension and Follow Up Study ADSP-FUS: APOE genotype status and demographic characteristics across datasets.
The Arc of ENCODE: 20 years of insight into genomic elements
The Association to Function Knowledge Portal enables forward- and reverse-genetics analyses of human genetic and functional genomic data
The Baby Bambi study: the first national rapid trio genome sequencing project in neonatal intensive care units
The Baylor College of Medicine Center for Precision Medicine Models
The Brain Gene Registry: A collaborative resource of the Intellectual and Developmental Disabilities Research Centers (IDDRC’s) to promote advances in translational science.
The Causal Relationship between Type 2 Diabetes mellitus and Chronic Periodontitis - A Mendelian Randomization study.
The Cellular Composition of the Subgenual Anterior Cingulate Cortex in Bipolar Disorder, Schzophrenia and Major Depressive Disorder
The ClinGen Kidney Disease Clinical Domain Working Group: Defining the genetic architecture of kidney disease.
The ClinGen-InSiGHT MUTYH Variant Curation Expert Panel: Lessons learned and a call to action.
The Clinician-reported Genetic testing Utility InDEX (C-GUIDE): Development and validation for prenatal care
The Emirati Genome Program: 1 million genomes for a better healthcare in the United Arab Emirates.
The Estonian Biobank’s MyGenome Portal: A comprehensive platform for return of results to over 200,000 biobank participants.
The Ethical and Social Issues of Excavating Human Differences in Social and Behavioral Genomics
The Ferrome: A curated list of iron-related genes with brain-specific sex differences in expression.
The G-Test: Genetic Testing Eligibility Screening Tool for Prostate Cancer
The GOBACK study: High molecular diagnostic rate in individuals with pediatric cancer and birth defects.
The Genetic Architecture of Bronchopulmonary Dysplasia in Extremely Preterm Infants.
The Genetics Navigator: Protocol for a Mixed Methods Randomized Controlled Trial Evaluating a Digital Platform to Deliver Genomic Services across Pediatric and Adult Populations
The Genomic Medicine Action Plan (GMAP) is a scalable, EHR-integrated utility-messaging tool for patients and their non-genetics providers receiving clinical genomic screening results.
The German Human Genome-Phenome Archive (GHGA) - A national infrastructure for secure archival and community-driven analysis of omics data
The Incontinentia Pigmenti Genetic Biobank: an example of fruitful partnership with patients
The Interaction Between TCE Permissiveness and HLA Class I Non-coding Mismatches May Impact Outcomes of Hematopoietic Cell Transplantation
The International Consortium on Newborn Sequencing (ICoNS)
The Major Depression Working Group of the Latin American Genomics Consortium (LAGC-MDD): Introduction, Insights, and Pipelines.
The Misuse of Mendel in Genetics Education
The Mouse Peroxisome Research Resource for Basic and Preclinical Research
The NHGRI Sample Repository for Human Genetic Research: biospecimens and a new multi-variant search tool for PGx and PRS
The NIH Comparative Genomics Resource: Maximizing the impact of research organisms to human health.
The NIH IDENTIFY study: A prospective evaluation of pregnant women with prenatal cfDNA sequencing results that suggest maternal malignancy
The NIH INCLUDE Project: Transforming research for people with Down syndrome across the lifespan.
The NINDS Human Genetics Resource Center: publicly available resource of large and clinically well-characterized cells and DNA
The Office of the National Coordinator’s Sync for Genes Program is delivering on standards-based genomics-EHR integration.
The Origin and Global Distribution of the 17q21 Inversion.
The POPGEN project: building a French reference panel of genomes
The PRAGMatIQ study: Implementation of rapid genome sequencing for hospitalized children in a publicly funded health care system
The Parkinson's Cell Atlas: A spatial map of disease programs in human brains.
The Personal Genome: Evaluating Individual Sample de novo Genome Assemblies and Reporting Performance Benchmarks
The PhenX Toolkit: Recommended measurement protocols to standardize data collection for COVID-19 studies
The Polygenic Genetics Landscape of Nephrolithiasis: Identifying Index SNPs and Their Associations by Linkage Disequilibrium
The QGPRS Study: An ensembl learning classifier integrating multi-trait polygenic scores improves risk stratification for T2D in Qatar Biobank cohort
The Question That Must Be Asked: Is Behavioral Genetics a Null Field?
The RNA-editing ADAR proteins broadly regulate gene expression in hepatic cells
The Role of Large Copy Number Variants in The Etiology for Chronic Kidney Disease Revealed through A Commercial Next-Generation Renal Gene Panel (RenasightTM)
The SNP rs6859 in NECTIN2 gene is associated with underlying heterogenous trajectories of cognitive changes in older adults.
The Sherlock Lung cancer study: A Pilot Study of Lung Cancer in Never Smokers in Nigeria
The Sickle Cell Women and Girls (S.W.A.G) Project of Accra, Ghana: An Evidence-Based Study at the Ghana Institute of Clinical Genetics
The Spatial Atlas of Human Anatomy (SAHA) Project: A High content spatial map of the Human Body
The Utah NeoSeq Project: rapid diagnostic whole genome sequencing of critically ill newborns
The World’s Largest Methylation Data Cohort: The Million Veteran Program increases its multi-omics capability by profiling 45,460 on a methylation array to provide novel insights and to serve as a rich data resource.
The added value of multi-tissue analysis in the identification of mosaicism in tumor suppressor gene syndromes.
The age-dependent dynamics of healthy clonal haematopoiesis in UK Biobank
The ancestral origin of rare variants contributing to Inflammatory Bowel Disease in Hispanics
The association between Copy number variations, Congenital Heart disease, and the risk of Mental Illness.
The atypical parent-of-origin effects dependent methylome is associated with the rate of aging in humans
The challenges of variant classification - a snapshot of reality through proficiency testing
The combined effect of clonal hematopoiesis of indeterminate potential and mosaic chromosomal alterations on cardiovascular health outcomes in individuals diagnosed with cancer in the UK Biobank.
The combined effect of rare and common variants in GSDMB/ORMDL3 is associated with response to inhaled corticosteroids among asthmatic children
The contribution of common and rare exonic variants to cognitive performance across early childhood and adolescence
The contribution of deleterious variants affecting PAM amidating activity on insulin response, incretin levels and diabetes risk.
The contribution of short tandem repeats to splicing variation in humans
The cost of inappropriate prediction algorithms on the health of minority individuals in large care-based Electronic Health Record
The crossroads of fine-mapping, single-cell multiome and immunophenotyping to inform on the molecular drivers of diseases in FinnGen
The development of Korea Cancer Omics Research (K CORE) web portal
The diagnostic yield of plasma-based cell free DNA in individuals with matched tissue-based venous and arteriovenous malformations
The distinct genetic determinants of infertility and reproductive hormones
The effect of GBA variants on Turkish patients with Parkinson's disease.
The estimated healthcare spend to identify 1 hereditary cancer syndrome patient with a deep intronic pathogenic variant by RNA sequencing is nearly 500x more costly than identifying 1 patient with multi-gene panel DNA testing
The evolutionary fate of Neanderthal introgression in recently admixed African-American genomes.
The evolutionary history of 17q21.31 structural haplotypes in ancient and modern humans
The expected polygenic risk score (ePRS) framework: an equitable metric to quantifying polygenetic risk via modeling of ancestral makeup.
The experience of one newborn sequencing study in evaluating potential clinical sequencing laboratory partners and genomic sequencing platforms
The expression analysis using RNA-seq on human cerebellar tissues.
The extent to which augmenting extant reference panels with population-specific sequences improves imputation quality
The first case of a Korean patient with the WACT(p.Arg151*)
The genetic architecture and discovery of novel candidate causative genes of visual impairment in consanguineous families from Iran and Pakistan.
The genetic architecture of pain intensity in the Million Veteran Program
The genetic basis of covariance between blood and urine biomarkers
The genetic breast cancer risk factors in Ghanaian women.
The genetic legacy of African Americans from Catoctin Furnace.
The genetic regulatory architecture of Alzheimer’s disease in iPSC-derived microglia from diverse ancestries.
The genetically regulated transcriptome better predicts plasma protein levels than the observed transcriptome and reveals mechanisms underlying autoimmune diseases
The genomic landscape of malformations of cortical development across 431 surgically accessible epileptogenic human brain lesions.
The global transcriptomic response to genetic perturbations
The identification of high-confidence disease-gene associations at the intersection of genetic and genomic evidence.
The impact of a G6PD variant on the risk of developing diabetic complications
The impact of a diagnostic genetic evaluation in the Neonatal Intensive Care Unit: A qualitative analysis
The impact of amino acid insertions and deletions on proteinsolubility and function.
The impact of cardiolipin acyl chain composition on tissue-specific mitochondrial phenotypes in Barth syndrome: new implications for cellular pathogenesis and therapeutic targeting
The impact of ethnicity on the single-cell immune response to malaria in West African children.
The impact of recurrent 16p12.2 deletions on health in general population and personalized management of undiagnosed adult CNV carriers in the Estonian Biobank.
The importance of collecting close relatives and family members in future large-scale genetic studies
The in-depth analysis of the Transylvanian Seklers' genetic profile using high-resolution autosomal markers
The influence of genetic interaction between CHRNB4 andThe influence of genetic interaction between CHRNB4 and depressive symptoms on smoking dependence
The interplay between Long QT variants and QT prolonging medications on the risk for Long QT syndrome.
The landscape of clinical sequencing in diverse populations: lessons learned from the Clinical Sequencing Evidence-generating Research (CSER) consortium.
The landscape of human somatic variability across genomes, tissues, and individuals
The landscape of inverted Alu repeats in the human genome and their evolutionary implications in RNA splicing.
The large effect of APOC3 A43T SNP on serum triglycerides is partially independent from that of serum APOCIII levels In Amerindians
The lncRNA TERRA regulates telomere maintenance in cancer cells via phase separation and condensate formation
The local portability of polygenic scores across populations varies significantly along the genome.
The longitudinal study of accumulation and inheritance of germline mutations is a way to understand microevolution.
The mammalian female reproductive tract at single-cell spatial resolution
The methylome and transcriptome of maturing iPSC-derived retinal 3D organoids over a 2-year period of culturing
The molecular landscape of myeloid malignancies with ring chromosomes
The molecular signature of restrictive cardiomyopathy - a multi-omics approach to diastolic heart failure.
The mutational landscape and clonal dynamics of male germline cells
The mutational landscape defines the proteome and spatial organization of tumor, stroma and immune cells in ovarian cancer
The nature of selection on common diseases and complex traits
The nonalcoholic fatty liver disease promoting allele GCKR(P446L) promotes both lipid and glycogen accumulation in a human liver cell line.
The outcome of next-generation sequencing in clinical diagnosis: Experience of Kuwait Medical Genetic Center
The p.C759F variant in USH2A is a pathogenic mutation: systematic literature review and meta-analysis of 667 genotypes
The performance characteristic of the low inputtagmentation-based Whole Genome Sequencing in high quality somatic variant calling
The phenotypic spectrum of the Cornelia de Lange-like “Alazami-Yuan Syndrome”: A case report of the 7th diagnosed patient and review of the literature.
The pitfalls of overly parameterized polygenic risk scores and new diagnostics to combat overfitting
The prefrontal cortex transcriptomic landscape of the comorbidity between post-traumatic stress disorder and opioid misuse
The quantitative minigene assay provides supporting evidence for variant classification in molecular diagnostics.
The rate of RNA isoform discovery since 2015 and their expression in human frontal cortex brain tissue based on long-read sequencing.
The relation between vitamin D receptor (rs2228570) polymorphism and prostate cancer.
The relationship between major psychiatric disorders, substance use behaviors, and longevity: A multivariable Mendelian randomization and multi-omics study
The reninness score: integrative analysis of multi-omic data to define renin cell identity.
The role of All of Us to recruit a large diverse participant pool
The role of TCF20 complex in neurodevelopment and MECP2-related ASD pathogenesis
The role of admixture in the rare variant contribution to inflammatory bowel disease
The role of exogenously induced mitochondrial DNA variation on the nuclear epigenome and transcriptome
The role of multidisciplinary genomic teams in precision medicine: an implementation science guided systematic review
The role of non-canonical open reading frames in Mendelian disease
The role of tenascin-X in idiopathic gastroparesis: Whole genome sequencing analysis.
The role of the genetic influence of dietary preferences on type 2 diabetes and cardiometabolic traits.
The roles of genetic susceptibility and sedentary behavior in the development of all-cause dementia in the UK Biobank
The rs4728142 of IRF5 as potential novel predictor of radiographic joint damage in rheumatoid arthritis.
The shared and divergent target genes, pathways and relevant cell types for 15 autoimmune diseases from genome-wide association studies—using IL12/IL23 pathway genes as an example
The shared genetic architecture of inflammatory bowel disease with clinical, psychiatric, diet, and behavioral traits
The small RNA transcriptome and its genetic regulation across human tissues
The social construction of genomics and blindness in Nigeria: The Eyes of Africa (EOA) study.
The somatic landscape of low-grade epilepsy-associated tumors across 275 surgically accessible human epileptogenic brain lesions
The topological chromatin remodeling in trisomy 21
The ulcerative colitis risk variant of adenylyl cyclase 7 has reduced cAMP signaling and promotes immune activation
The ungracious guest: how the human papillomavirus (HPV) changes the local host epigenome and transcriptome to promote tumorigenesis.
The use of Chinese version of hyperphagia questionnaire to assess the hyperphagia status of Prader Willi syndrome patients in Taiwan.
The use of deep learning to alter and analyze facial expressions in syndromic facial diagnostics
The usefulness of molecular diagnosis to identify a patient with atypical MPS IVA phenotype suggesting Legg-Calve-Perthes disease and skeletal dysplasia.
The utility of polygenic risks scores in predicting age of onset of End Stage Renal Disease
The variation and evolution of complete human centromeres
Theoretical and empirical interpretation of heritability estimation in admixed populations.
Therapeutic effects of Antisense Oligonucleotide for Treatment of VCP Multisystem Proteinopathy.
Threading new data into reconstructed genealogies
Three KINSSHIP syndrome patients with mosaic and germline AFF3 variants.
Three open questions regarding polygenic score portability
Three patients with Wiedemann-Steiner syndrome
Three-Dimensional Nuclear Organization of Telomeres in Breast Cancer
Thyroid function and metabolic syndrome: a two-sample bidirectional Mendelian randomization study.
Tilted-CCA: Quantifying common and distinct information in multi-modal single-cell data via matrix factorization
Time series data reveal selection on blood group phenotypes over the past 10,000 years in West Eurasia
Tissue resampling reveals missing somatic variation in brain tissue from pediatric focal epilepsy patients
Tissue-specific DNA methylation signatures of alcohol use disorder in human brain.
Tissue-specific alterations in alternative splicing associated with aging.
Tissue-specific epigenetic differences in adults born preterm with very low birth weight compared with their same-sex. siblings
Tissue-specific mtDNA regulation of gene expression
Title:Deconvoluting Bulk RNA-seq Data of 1200 samples of Dorsolateral Prefrontal Cortex tissue using reference single nucleus RNAseq data of 400 samples for Cell-Type-Specific TWAS of AD Dementia
To investigate the mutational features of the immunoglobulin heavy chain variable region gene in patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia using immunophenotypic and molecular genetic methods
Topic modeling uncovers cell states and context-specific genetic regulation in embryoid bodies
Towards Representative Genomic Research: The Children’s Rare Disease Cohorts Experience
Towards clinical exomes in molecular diagnostics of male factor infertility: the national experience in Estonia
Towards fully automated polygenic risk score estimation from noisy data using a machine learning approach
Towards improving access to autism clinical genetic testing: Estimating personalized genetic probabilities in over 3,000 autistic children
Towards precision medicine: Factor analysis-driven phenome-wide data integration for enhanced polygenic score performance
Tracing the genetic link of Mizo people of India: Genetic & archaeological evidence
Tradeoff between prediction accuracy and transferability in the design of polygenic risk scores of bipolar disorder.
TraitScan: a trait subset scanning method for multi-trait GWAS
Trajectory inference of multiple cellular lineages in embryoid bodies.
Trans-Ethnic Analysis of PCOS Subtype Genomewide Association Signals Reveals 3 Shared Subtype-Specific Loci.
Trans-ancestry GWAS meta-analysis of peripheral artery disease uncover 89 loci and post-GWAS analyses map the signals to candidate effector genes and disease mechanisms.
Trans-ancestry PRSs of lipid traits: quantification and contextualization in large cohorts and biobanks.
TransTWAS: A Multi-tissue Transcriptome-wide Association Studies with High Dimensional Transfer Learning
Transcript-specific rare-variant analysis identifies novel transcript-trait associations in the UK Biobank
Transcription factor activation induces re-replication and site-specific copy gain of the interferon receptor cluster
Transcriptional and epigenetic profiles of CD8+ T lymphocytes in multiple sclerosis.
Transcriptional landscape of MLIP in pediatric and adult myopathy patients.
Transcriptional networks in placenta and fetal brain reveal extensive sex differences in a mouse model of polychlorinated biphenyl mixture exposure.
Transcriptome Study of Metabolically Healthy Obesity in Two Cohorts of African American
Transcriptome and acetylome profiling identify crucial steps of neuronal differentiation in Rubinstein Taybi syndrome
Transcriptome phenotype analysis based on RNA-Seq increases the diagnostic rate and resolves variants of uncertain significance in patients with undiagnosed infantile spasms
Transcriptome profiling during early postnatal development in humans
Transcriptome profiling of pediatric extracranial solid tumors enables rapid, low cost diagnostic classification.
Transcriptome wide Association Study of Activated Monocytes Identifies NETO2 and CRISPLD2 as Potential Alzheimer’s disease Resilience Genes
Transcriptome-Wide Association Study of Mammographic Density Phenotypes
Transcriptome-level interpretation of gene-by-environment interactions for human complex traits
Transcriptome-wide Causal Inference Identifies Potential Causal Genes for Male-pattern Baldness
Transcriptome-wide association study and causal inference analysis identifies colorectal cancer susceptibility genes with therapeutic potential.
Transcriptome-wide association study for frequent cocaine use identifies gene dysregulation in CD4+ T cells linked to immune response and cancer pathways.
Transcriptome-wide association study of whole blood lipid traits in a diverse population.
Transcriptomic Dysfunction Disparities: Greater Burden in Female Brainshighlights Immune and Synaptic Pathways for psychiatric disorders
Transcriptomic analysis of multiple tissues in obesity in Africans
Transcriptomic analysis reveals the dynamic changes of immune responses during the development of creeping fat in Crohn's disease.
Transcriptomic profiles of corneal epithelium reflect irregularities in epithelial thickness maps of post-refractive ectasia patients
Transferrin isoform analysis as a functional test for genetic variation in PMM2
Transforming Genomics Research through Community Engagement and Return of Results: A Case Study from French Polynesia
Transforming a pathogenic dominant-negative variant into a benign loss-of-function variant: ATAD3A as a paradigm
Translating the effects of CMT2S variants with human-on-a-chip neuromuscular junction systems.
Treatment of MeCP2e1 deficient mice with microglia ablating PLX3397 correlated with sex disparate on body weight but not Rett like disease severity
Tree-based testing procedure for phenome-wide association studies
Trinity of chromatin architects - the coordination of CTCF, RNAPOL2 and Cohesin proteins in shaping the spatial landscape of human genomes
Trio analysis reveals de novo rare variants in Congenital Hypogonadotropic Hypogonadism
Trio exome sequencing identifies increased incidence of clonal hematopoiesis of indeterminate potential in Bloom Syndrome probands and carriers
Trio-based exome sequencing incorporating deep phenotyping improves the diagnostic yield of prenatal skeletal dysplasia
Triple molecular diagnosis of Wolf Hirschhorn syndrome,20p duplication syndrome and Frontotemporal dementia and/or amyotrophic lateral sclerosis
Triploidy complicated with Hyperinsulinism hypoglycemia with an unusually long lifespan.
Trisomy 21 reshapes enhancer-gene maps to influence cellular phenotypes
Trisomy of 4p and partial monosomy of 15q due to unbalanced translocation in an infant with multiple congenital anomalies - A case report.
Tumor Heterogeneity in breast cancer by cellular Telogenomics
Tumor Mutation Burden calculation from a targeted gene panel
Tumor cellularity bias on interpretationof genomic data in pancreatic ductaladenocarcinoma
Tumor transcriptomic profiling in racially and ethnically diverse colorectal cancer patients to identify new predictors of mortality
Two additional cases of GM3 synthase deficiency in non-Amish patients
Two distinct genetic loci contribute to the genetic etiology of a complex syndromic neurodevelopmental disorder.
Two-sample Mendelian Randomization of Major Depressive Disorder and Inflammatory Bowel Disease
Two-sample Mendelian randomization study of circulating metabolites and prostate cancer risk in Hispanic populations
Two-stage Bayesian network (BN) causal structure learning for discovering ncRNA-gene regulatory network.
Type 1 Diabetes Genetic Risk Score robustly classifies diabetes types in Indians: Impact of HLA diversity in the discriminative ability
UBA5-related Epilepsy: From Cellular Models to Novel Therapies
UCSC Genome Browser: Instantly lift annotations between human genomes.
Unbiased functional genomics-driven discovery of Alzheimer's Disease mechanisms via analysis of 382 independent GWAS loci
Unbiased plasma proteomics analysis uncovers potential biomarkers for renal disease and pulmonary hypertension in patients with sickle cell disease.
Uncontrolled hypertension is associated with AGT proteomics and risk for clinical sequelae.
Uncover Phenotypic Networks through Mutation Carriers at Mendelian Disease Genes: a case Study of Autosomal Dominant Polycystic Kidney Disease (ADPKD)
Uncovering Novel Genetic Loci and Biological Pathways Associated with Age-Related Cataracts through GWAS Meta-Analysis.
Uncovering Potential Susceptibility Genes for Knee Osteoarthritis through Whole Exome Sequencing.
Uncovering human specific gene regulatory elements in heart organogenesis by integrating primary tissues and organoid model
Uncovering isoforms modulating early endothelial cell differentiation via a system-scale approach
Uncovering phenotypic abnormalities associated with metabolic genes using All of Us.
Uncovering sources of human gene expression variation in a globally diverse cohort
Uncovering the brain-specific genetic regulation of splicing by mapping splicing quantitative trait loci in 13,061 post-mortem brain RNA-seq samples.
Uncovering the functional landscape of PMS2 variants by deep mutational scanning.
Uncovering the genetic roots of androgenic alopecia in African men: a novel dataset reveals ancestry-specific loci and pathways.
Uncovering the nuclear genetic basis of mtDNA heteroplasmy.
Uncovering the role of actin cytoskeletal dynamics in seizures caused by TIAM1 loss
Underlying germline genetic architecture of pediatric sarcomas: evaluating the role of common and rare variants in 4,160 patients
Understanding ableism in abstracts for genetic and genomic autism research
Understanding caudal developmental abnormalities using 5' end single-nuclei RNA sequencing data from wild type and Danforth's short tail mouse E9.5 tailbuds
Understanding complex trait susceptibilities and ethnical diversity in a sample of 4,145 Russians through analysis of clinical and genetic data
Understanding dynamic molecular regulations in brains with regard to Tuberous Sclerosis diseases.
Understanding heterogeneity of POLG related disorders for drug discovery
Understanding parental/caregiver perspectives during pediatric genome-wide sequencing: A scoping literature review
Understanding splicing regulation during human heart organogenesis
Understanding the causes of phenotypic heterogeneity among carriers of clinical pathogenic variants.
Understanding the genetic complexity of puberty timing across the allele frequency spectrum.
Understanding the role of Curcuma caesia Roxb. in PIN1 degradation using SKOV3 ovarian cells.
Understanding the role of Hippo effectors Yap1 and Wwtr1 in optic fissure fusion.
Understanding the role of structural variants in Alzheimer’s Disease: Building a reference imputation panel across 4,699 samples to drive SV-GWAS
Unearthing the overlooked founder effect of Beauce (Quebec, Canada)
Unified somatic calling and machine learning-based classification enhance the discovery of clonal hematopoiesis of indeterminate potential
Unique genetic architecture of CSF and brain metabolites pinpoints the novel targets for the traits of human wellness
Unique genome wide methylation patterns within HIV disease
Unleashing the Power of Telomere Length Genetics: Unravelling Disease Associations and Rare Variant Impacts from 483,778 UK Biobank Genomes
Unlocking missed structural variants: enhancing short-read data with haplotype-informed methods
Unraveling Functional Effects of Curly Su Mutations in Drosophila Melanogaster: Computational Mutagenesis and Genetics Insights
Unraveling Genetic Associations and Ancestral Influences on Fibroproliferative Diseases
Unraveling Layers of Proteogenomic Complexity in Cancer through Multiomic Exploration of Archived FFPE Tissue
Unraveling Oligodendrocyte Heterogeneity in Neurodegenerative Disorders.
Unraveling disease-driving genes and cell types through optimized integration of single-cell transcription and genome-wide association studies
Unraveling dynamic enhancer-promoter interactions across neural differentiation using network analysis models
Unraveling inequality: UCSF 500's path to universal precision oncology.
Unraveling sex differences in the complex genetic architecture of blood pressure and insights into cardiovascular disease pleiotropy.
Unraveling shared genetics across asthma subtypes and 70 biological and physiological asthma-related traits.
Unraveling the Contribution of Structural Variants on Cardiometabolic Traits in the UK Biobank.
Unraveling the Haplotype Diversity of the Immunoglobulin Heavy Chain Constant Locus Using Targeted Long-Read Sequencing
Unraveling the Intrafamilial Phenotypic Variability in Sibling Pairs with Neurodevelopmental Diseases
Unraveling the genetic architechture of autoimmune gastritis and pernicious anmeia.
Unraveling the genetic basis of autoimmune hypothyroidism
Unraveling the genetic enigma of Endometriosis: Novel insights and gene discovery on a deeply characterized cohort.
Unraveling the genetics of cellular senescence for target discovery for IPF.
Unraveling the impact of variants of unknown significance in breast cancer risk modulation within the context of polygenic background
Unraveling the role of MPDZ SNP rs139926461 in osteoblast function and bone mineral density (BMD) using prime editing.
Unraveling the shared genetic architecture of insulin resistance, type 2 diabetes, and cardiometabolic diseases independent of traditional risk factors.
Unravelling Mitochondrial Diseases Metabolism: Discovery and Validation of Biomarkers and Signatures in the Largest Patient Cohort Study to Date
Unravelling Myoblast Potential: A Breakthrough in CRISPR/Cas9 Efficiency.
Unravelling Pan-Cancer Susceptibility at 5p15.33: Functional Characterization of a Novel VNTR Variant
Unravelling the Genetic and Phenotypic Heterogeneity of Red Cell Membranopathies in Indian Population Using Next Generation Sequencing.
Unravelling the impact of admixture and adaptation on patterns of genetic diversity at the TAS2R bitter taste receptor genes in distinct African populations from Cameroon
Unravelling the interplay between type 2 diabetes, genetics and metabolite levels
Unsupervised clustering revealed metabolic syndrome endophenotypes with differing phenotypic and genotypic traits in UK and Taiwan Biobanks
Untangling the role of heritable individual-level exposures in type 2 diabetes risk: how genetics impacts our unhealthy behaviors.
Untangling the shared genetic architecture between Alzheimer’s and cardiometabolic disease.
Unveiling Global Disparities in Idiopathic Infantile Hypercalcemia: A Genetic and Population-Based Study
Unveiling Hidden Associations: Leveraging Continuous Tumor Dynamics to Discover Novel Somatic Mutations Influencing Tumor Progression and Treatment Response in Precision Oncology
Unveiling Inter- and Intra-Tumor Heterogeneity in Ductal Carcinoma in Situ (DCIS) and Invasive Ductal Carcinoma (IDC) through Integration of Unified Single-Cell Whole Genome Copy Number and RNA Expression Data
Unveiling Susceptible Transcription Factors and Novel Risk Genes in Colorectal Cancer: Integrating Large-Scale Genetic and Omics Data Analysis
Unveiling cell-type-specific molecular signatures in autoimmune diseases
Unveiling genetic insights into glaucoma subtypes: genome-wide multi-ethnic meta-analysis identifies 22 independent risk loci for normal-tension glaucoma and elucidates genetic similarities and distinctions with high-tension glaucoma.
Unveiling hidden transcripts using a T2T human reference genome
Unveiling novel actionable targets: Proteomic GWAS insights into 1790 largely unstudied proteins.
Unveiling novel endometriosis genetic associations through unsupervised, phenotypic clustering analysis of distinct clinical subtypes
Unveiling the Cellular Landscape of Monogenic Genes of Kidney Stones: A Secondary Analysis of Single-cell RNA-seq Data.
Unveiling the Functional Relevance of Protein Coding Short Tandem Repeats in APOB and E2F4 through Structural Modeling and Analysis
Unveiling the Genetic Landscape of Inherited Retinal Diseases: Insights from a Large Pakistani Cohort
Unveiling the Genomics of Refractory Epilepsy: Human Diploid Genome Assembly using Long-Read Sequencing Technologies (PacBio HiFi).
Unveiling the Significance of Copy Number Variations & Mitochondrial Mutations via a Single Next-Generation Sequencing Test
Unveiling the resilience effect in high-risk Alzheimer’s Disease individuals at single-cell resolution
Unveiling the spectrum of genetic variants intheKorean population: whole genome sequencing of 8,100 Korean participants
Update to the CLIA diagnostic procedure using optical genome mapping for the diagnosis of facioscapulohumeral dystrophy.
Usability of a pre-test genetic counseling video for familial hypercholesterolemia as part of RESEQUENCE-GC.
Use of long read sequencing and optical genome mapping to solve unsolved rare Mendelian diseases.
Use of personalized reference sets for polygenic scores negates need for arbitrary groupings
Use of polygenic risk scores to improve GFR estimating equations in CRIC and MESA.
Using 858,635 individuals' haplotype-sharing between British and Danish populations to infer the North Sea migration history
Using CRISPR in the embryonic mouse brain to model patient variants in MAP1B associated with periventricular nodular heterotopia
Using CUT&RUN/Tag with a portable nanopore sequencing device
Using FST to understand putative bias induced by population stratification in Mendelian randomization studies
Using Long-Read Sequencing to Identify Methylation Differences Related to Alzheimer's Disease
Using Polygenic Risk Scores to Investigate Inverse Genetic Associations Between Cancer and Cognitive Decline
Using RNA-sequencing to investigate the rhythmicity of chronic low back pain
Using a multivariate genotype-phenotype approach to measure endocrine-mediated masculinity and femininity in human faces.
Using alternative genetic models in IPF susceptibility genome-wide association studies
Using computational phenotype trajectories to inform a holistic model of care for rare diseases
Using e-Technology Among Populations of Advanced Age to Investigate Genetic Mechanisms of Exceptional Longevity in the SuperAgers Family Study
Using external reference panel and single-variant summary statistics for rare-variant aggregation tests.
Using genome-wide gene-drug interactions to test for genomic sensitivity to statins in the treatment of hypercholesterolemia
Using information technology to optimise the differential diagnosis of rare genetic diseases
Using interpretable machine learning to understand variation in the human genome.
Using long-read sequencing to identify complex damaging variants in familial Parkinson's disease
Using multiple approaches to identify the novel role of trafficking mechanisms underlying epilepsy
Using networks of short IBD to identify ethnolinguistic-related groups in African population
Using plasma proteomics and Mendelian randomization to identify causal proteins for neurological disease
Using population data to assess significance of rare variants in WGS of n=1 disease cases.
Using precision animal models to support the discovery of a new AXIN2-related disorder.
Using protein language model annotations to improve the power of exome-wide association studies.
Using rare genetic mutations to revisit structural brain asymmetry
Using signatures of natural selection to inform functional significance of GWAS variants in Inflammatory Bowel Disease
Using single cell transcriptomics to identify endothelial cell senescence signature genes that correlate with atherosclerotic disease.
Using single-molecule analysis for a deep investigation of Tau proteoform heterogeneity and proteome-wide changes in Alzheimer’s Disease.
Using the ENCODE encyclopedia to better understand gene regulation
Uterine fibroids causes and consequences: Using mendelian randomization to establish directionality between fibroids and associated genitourinary and neoplasm phecodes
Utility of DNA methylation episignatures in neurodevelopmental disorders: from variant classification to new diagnoses, interactions and novel episignature discovery.
Utility of using elastic net models to impute gene expression in the anterior cingulate cortex and implications for network analysis.
Utilizing Long-read Sequencing to Decipher the Phenotypic Heterogeneity in Motor Neuron Diseases
Utilizing NMD Inhibition, Readthrough Agents, and Small Molecule Modulator Combination to Achieve Functional and RNA-Level Restoration of CFTR Nonsense Mutations.
Utilizing TimiGP for in-depth analysis of the tumor immune microenvironment and its association with clinical outcomes of various cancers after immunotherapy
Utilizing genetically determined retinal thickness to link to the risk and Age-at-Onset of Alzheimer’s disease.
Utilizing long-read sequencing to decipher the genomic architecture of mitochondrial DNA in neurodegenerative diseases
Utilizing multiplexed assays of variant effects to solve VOUS and screen for small molecule therapeutics in Alagille syndrome.
Utilizing nullomers in cell-free RNA for cancer detection.
Utilizing targeted TSO500 ctDNA NGS assay and Seer Proteograph to study genome and proteome changes in various cancer types
VPAP: A pipeline for proteomic analysis of genetic variants
VRK2 is implicated in stuttering, beat synchronization, and language decline.
Validating clinical interpretations of familial hypercholesterolemia variants using East Asian Biobank data
Validating gene-disease relationships in Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease through a robust curation effort: The Clinical Genome Resource Charcot-Marie-Tooth gene and variant curation expert panels.
Validation of low-pass genome sequencing as a replacement for chromosomal microarray in prenatal diagnostics
Validation study of the AD8 and Clinical Dementia Rating Scale for a Samoan speaking population.
Values-Based Policymaking in Prenatal Human Gene Editing
VanDyPlot, an interactive gene-specific variant visualization interface.
Variance of Age-specific Log Incidence Decomposition (VALID): Application to female breast cancer.
Variant pathogenicity - support from companion animal genomes
Variant specific phenotypes for SLC6A1-related disorders.
Variant-enhancer-gene mapping at the 9p21 locus in smooth muscle cells reveals new enhancer-gene pairs for coronary artery disease
Variant-to-function mapping of late-onset Alzheimer’s disease GWAS loci in human microglial models implicates RTFDC1 as an effector gene at the CASS4 locus
Variant-to-function translation of obesity-associated loci through multi-omics data integration
Variants Detected in Mitochondrial DNA D-loop in Iranian Patients with Non-alcoholic Fatty Liver Disease
Variants in DOK7 gene results in fetal akinesia deformation sequence
Variants in EFCAB7 underlie nonsydromic postaxial polydactyly.
Variants in the SOX9 transactivation middle domain induce axial skeleton dysplasia and scoliosis
Variants of uncertain significance identified with prenatal exome sequencing: to report or not to report?
Variants of uncertain significance: Characterization of a cohort from the Brain Gene Registry
Variants reaching Genomic wide significance in their association with therapeutic response to Atenolol or Topiramate in migraine prophylaxis are identified.
Variation and novelty: Evolutionarily new genes enable protein structural innovation and function in the brain
Variation in mushroom body morphology in cocaine preferring Drosophila Genetic Reference Panel lines
Variation in the response to synthetic glucocorticoids is dominantly explained by a single measure of efficacy.
Vector copy number detection for CAR-T Therapy using a Droplet Digital PCR system.
Visualization of geographic variation in linkage disequilibrium across human populations
Vitamin B12-deficient mice lacking the transcobalamin-vitamin B12 receptor, CD320, exhibit modest changes in balance, locomotor activity, peripheral sensation and vision.
Vitamin D binding protein gene polymorphisms of the rs7041 and rs4588 minor allele are associated with HIV and tuberculosis co-infection.
Vitamin D genetics: inclusion of residence-based UV exposure reveals novel independent loci in genome-wide association and interaction analyses.
VizCNV: An integrated platform for CNV detection and analysis of genome sequencing data
Voluntary workplace genetic testing in a large healthcare system: Does testing prompt employee health behavior changes or use of health services?
Von Hippel-Lindau syndrome - a case report
WES CNV Filtering and Curation in Epilepsy and Obesity for Medically Reportable Secondary Findings per ACMG Guidelines
WGS improves detection of Duchenne and Becker Muscular Dystrophy: Case studies
WGS reveals secondary modifiers contribute to parkinsonism in patients with GBA1 variants.
WGSPD: The largest deep whole genome sequencing cohort of bipolar and schizophrenia patients identifies novel genetic insights
We do know what we don’t know: variant assessment across All of US long read efforts
Weight loss in individuals with 16p11.2 deletion syndrome receiving GLP-1 receptor agonists and/or SGLT-2 inhibitors for type 2 diabetes treatment.
What are non-canonical open reading frames and how are they detected?
What are patient perspectives on privacy and trust in digital genomic tools? A qualitative study
What underlies changes in physiological trait heritability with age?
When are aggregation tests more powerful than single-variant tests for rare-variant association studies?
Where we stand on gene therapy: The current capabilities, the public opinion, and the policy.
White matter microstructure associations with polygenic risk score for essential tremor in healthy adults
Whole Exome Sequencing Uncovers the Genetic Complexity of Bicuspid Aortic Valve in Families with Early Onset Complications
Whole Genome Sequencing (WGS) Meta-analysis identifies Loci Associated with Non-alcoholic Fatty Liver Disease (NAFLD) across ancestries
Whole Genome Sequencing (WGS) in COVID-19 persistent chemosensory dysfunction: assessing the role of Loss of Function variants (LoFs) in a highly characterized Italian cohort.
Whole Genome Sequencing Analysis of Weight Loss in Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease in Trans-Omics for Precision Medicine
Whole Genome Sequencing in Adults with Chronic Kidney Disease or End-Stage Kidney Disease in the Million Veteran Program
Whole exome and mitochondrial genome sequencing identified heterozygous variants in PLOD1, SLC22A5, and SDHD in a Syrian family with a history of sudden unexplained deaths.
Whole exome sequence analysis reveals candidate disease genes for lichen sclerosus.
Whole exome sequencing data reveals candidate loci for Type 1 diabetes in Kuwaiti-Arab families
Whole exome sequencing for prolonged neonatal/infantile intrahepatic cholestasis discovered a definitive molecular genetic diagnosis.
Whole exome sequencing in fetuses with abnormal ultrasound finding.
Whole exome sequencing of African-Brazilian extended families with essential hypertension reveals 30 candidate genes
Whole exome sequencing of Moroccan prostate cancer samples identifies novel prostate cancer genes and several well-known signaling pathways.
Whole exome sequencing of families from Senegal reveals known and candidate hearing impairment genes
Whole exome sequencing reveals known and novel variants in two Malians families with neuronal ceroid lipofuscinosis
Whole exome/genome sequencing with rapid automated judgment algorithm for diagnosis of difficult-to-diagnose hereditary hearing impairment patients
Whole genome burden testing in 333,100 individuals identifies novel rare non-coding aggregate associations with height that impact HMGA1 and miRNA expression
Whole genome sequencing analysis reveals structural variants in the H1/H2 haplotype region and new susceptibility loci associated with progressive supranuclear palsy.
Whole genome sequencing and proteomic analysis of mucus plugging in COPDGene
Whole genome sequencing identifies very rare de novo and inherited pathogenic variants in European cleft case-parent trios.
Whole genome sequencing interaction study identifies loci with sex-specific effects underlying platelet aggregation traits
Whole genome sequencing of 1,000 individuals clarifies the ancestral admixture of the Ugandan population and identifies variants associated with neonatal hydrocephalus.
Whole genome sequencing of fibroid samples identified potential novel loci associated with fibroid risk
Whole genome sequencing provides high diagnostic rate and improves patient care for under-served adults with intellectual disability
Whole genome sequencing study of consanguineous Pakistani families reveals a set of potentially causative variants in various male infertility phenotypes.
Whole genome sequencing to better understand the clinical heterogeneity of SHANK3-related PMS patient.
Whole-exome-widerarevariants analysis detectedgenesassociatedwithpediatric sepsisphenotypewith severe outcome
Whole-genome Sequencing Analysis of Body Mass Index in the Trans-Omics for Precision Medicine (TOPMed) Program Identifies Novel African Ancestry-specific Risk Allele
Whole-genome bisulfite sequencing of cell-free fetal DNA from low volume plasma samples facilitates investigations of methylomic signatures associated with autism risk factors
Whole-genome bisulfite sequencing of motor neurons reveals cell specific enhancers and enables the identification of motor neuron derived cell-free DNA
Whole-genome sequencing analysis of IgG4-related disease in the Japanese population
Whole-genome sequencing and metabolic profiling in Finns underscores the relevance of rare variants in blood metabolome regulation and disease risk.
Whole-genome sequencing pharmacogenomic variants in a census-based Brazilian cohort of admixed elderly individuals
Widespread age-associated changes in the chromatin architecture of skeletal muscle cell types.
Widespread transposable element dysregulation in human brains with Alzheimer’s disease
Widespread transposable element dysregulation in human brains with Alzheimer’s disease
Wnt activity reveals context-specific genetic effects on gene regulation in neural progenitors.
X chromosome association study of asthma
Yield of integrated DNA and RNA analysis of hereditary cancer associated genes based on cancer diagnosis.
Zellweger spectrum disorder: The case of a missing PEX1 allele in a fetus with multiple congenital anomalies.
cellSTAAR: Incorporating single-cell-sequencing-based functional data to boost power in rare variant association testing of non-coding regions
dsRID: Editing-free in silico identification of dsRNA region using long-read RNA-seq data
eQTL analysis of canine testes identifies gene expression patterns associated with canine body size.
eQTL mapping in fetal-like pancreas reveals novel insights into diabetes etiology
eQTLGen phase 2: Genome-wide trans-eQTL analysis in blood in over 35,000 individuals provides insight into the genetic architecture of molecular traits.
gnomAD v4: building scalable frameworks to process and quality control 730,913 exomes and 76,156 genomes.
graphPred: multi-ancestry polygenic risk prediction with millions of SNPs in minutes
hipFG: Harmonization and Integration Pipeline for Functional Genomics
iGenoMed-MTT: A prospective multi’omic study of response to molecularly targeted therapies in IBD.
iPSC-SGE: assessing variant effects in differentiated cell types at scale
isGWAS: ultra-high-throughput, scalable and equitable inference of genetic associations
miRNA & mRNA gene networks in Major Depression in a large postmortem brain sample
mtPGS: Leverage Multiple Correlated Traits for Accurate Polygenic Score Construction
omicsIMC: A Comprehensive Benchmarking Platform for Robust Comparison of Imputation Methods in Mass Spectrometry-based Omics Data
pyGEMMA: A User-Friendly Python Implementation of Linear Mixed Models for Genome-Wide Association Studies
sc-eQTGen: large scale federated cell-type specific eQTL mapping in PBMCs
scEmbed: Single-cell ATAC-seq clustering via representation learning of genomic regulatory regions.
scLongTree: a novel highly-accurate and scalable computational tool to infer the longitudinal tree from longitudinal scDNAseq data
scTIE: data integration and inference of gene regulation using single-cell temporal multimodal data
treX-QTL: A mixture-model for identification and characterization of trans-eQTLs
Genetic analyses of inflammatory polyneuropathy and chronic inflammatory demyelinating polyradiculoneuropathy identified candidate genes.
Multi-ancestry genome-wide meta-analysis of 56,241 individuals identifies LRRC4C andLHX5-AS1 and nominates ancestry-specific loci PTPRK, GRB14, and KIAA0825 as novel risk loci for Alzheimer’s disease: the Alzheimer’s Disease Genetics .
Bi-allelic loss-of-function variants in Replication Factor C 4 (RFC4) are associated with a neurological disorder characterized by ataxia, muscular weakness, hearing impairment, and short stature.
α-Synuclein pathology in Drosophila melanogaster is exacerbated by haploinsufficiency of Rop: Connecting STXBP1 encephalopathy with α-synucleinopathies.
A Digital Binder: How digital tools enable personalized and partnered care in genetics
Age-in-a-dish: model of astrocytes - Can directed differentiation do the trick?
I worry I don’t have control: The psychosocial impacts of living with a hereditary cancer syndrome
Points to Consider for International Genomic Data Sharing in the Health Technologies Industries
The reason you have anxiety is because you have this genetic disease: sources of anxiety and depression among individuals with inborn errors of immunity.
Think Rare: Harnessing electronic medical record data to shorten the rare disease diagnostic odyssey