1
Multi-omics Integration Identifies Genes Influencing Traits
Associated with Cardiovascular Risks
S. Acharya*1,3, L. Liao1,2, W. Jung1,2, E. Kang1,2, V. A. Moghaddam1
,
M. Feitosa1
, M. Wojczynski1
, S. Lin1
, J. A. Anema1
, K.Schwander1
,
J.O Connell1
, M. Province1
, M. Brent1,2
1
Department of Statistical Genomics, Washington University
School of Medicine, St Louis, Missouri, United States of America;
2
Department of Computer Science and Engineering, Washington
University, St Louis, Missouri, United States of America;
3
Department of Computational and Data Sciences, Washington
University, St Louis, Missouri, United States of America
*Presenting Author
The Long Life Family Study (LLFS) enrolled 4,953
participants in 539 pedigrees displaying exceptional longevity.
To identify genetic mechanisms that protect LLFS participants
against age-related cardiovascular risks, we developed a freely
available multi-omics integration pipeline and applied it to 11
traits associated with cardiovascular risks. Using our pipeline,
we aggregated gene-level statistics from Rare-Variant Analysis,
GWAS, and gene expression-trait association by Correlated
Meta-Analysis (CMA). Across all traits, CMA identified 51
significant genes after Bonferroni correction (P ≤ 2.8×10-7).
CETP, NLRC5, SLC45A3, and TOMM40 lie within 50 Kb of a known
trait-associated variant (previously associated genes). Analysis of
protein-protein interaction (PPI) networks identified another
63 genes (passing genes) that (1) have CMA p-value ≤ 5×10-3, (2)
lie in a PPI module (highly connected subnetwork) enriched for
genes with low P-values, and (3) are annotated with a biological
process that is enriched among module genes, ten of which
were previously associated with the same traits. Permutation
analysis showed that passing genes have a false positive rate
of 1 in 14876 and are more likely to be previously known than
non-passing genes with similar p-values. CMA improved on the
3 input analyses by producing the largest number of modules
enriched for genes with low P-values and highly enriched for
genes participating in shared biological processes. Overall,
module analysis identified highly plausible candidate causal
genes whose P-values after CMA alone were merely suggestive.
2
Joint Analysis of Longitudinal Omics Data and Time-ToEvent Outcomes in the Context of Aging
Konstantin G. Arbeev1*, Olivia Bagley1
, Aravind Lathika
Rajendrakumar1
, Sheng Luo2
, Igor Akushevich1
, Anatoliy I.
Yashin1
, Svetlana V. Ukraintseva1
1
Social Science Research Institute, Duke University, Durham, North
Carolina, United States of America; 2
Department of Biostatistics
and Bioinformatics, Duke University School of Medicine, Durham,
North Carolina, United States of America
Contemporary longitudinal studies started collecting
information on repeated measurements of various omics (e.g.,
metabolomics) data. Joint analyses of such data and time-toevent (TTE) outcomes require specific approaches to address
inherent analytic complications and provide inference relevant
in the context of aging. We present the extensions of joint models
(JM) for longitudinal and TTE outcomes and the stochastic
process models (SPM) which are suitable for these purposes.
We applied the approach to longitudinal measurements of
44 lysophosphatidylcholine (LPC) metabolites that showed
significant (p-value<0.05, Bonferroni-corrected) association of
larger values with higher risk of onset of Alzheimer’s disease
(AD) in the Alzheimer’s Disease Neuroimaging Initiative (ADNI)
participants (from entire sample, n=1,161; 360 AD cases) in
traditional JM. SPM applications decomposed the observed
associations into several components related to different agingrelated characteristics: (a) decline in robustness and resilience
to deviations of LPC metabolites from optimal levels (those
minimizing AD risk at respective ages); (b) age-related changes
in mean allostatic (“equilibrium”) trajectories of the metabolites;
and (c) gaps between the optimal and equilibrium trajectories.
These components varied (p-value<0.05, Bonferroni-corrected)
by sex and APOE e4 carrier status and across the metabolites.
The resulting complex interplay of those components results
in increased AD risk at older ages compared to younger ages.
These findings call for further analyses of age-related dynamics
of LPC metabolites to determine the underlying causes
and mechanisms (including genetic underpinnings) of the
observed associations. The approach can be applied to other
types of omics data as well as to joint analyses of those.
3
The Intergenerational Transmission of Mental Health
Disorders: A Systematic Review of Molecular Genetic
Studies
Michelle Arellano Spano*1,2, Johanne Hagen Pettersen3
, Evelyn
R. Dilkes4, Amanda Hughes1,2,3 and Neil Davies1,2,3
1
Medical Research Council Integrative Epidemiology Unit at the
University of Bristol, Bristol, United Kingdom; 2
Population Health
Sciences, Bristol Medical School, University of Bristol, Barley House,
Oakfield Grove, Bristol, United Kingdom; 3
K.G. Jebsen Center for
Genetic Epidemiology, Department of Public Health and Nursing,
Norwegian University of Science and Technology, Norway; 4
Institute for Social and Economic Research, University of Essex
Abstracts
The 2023 Annual Meeting of the International
Genetic Epidemiology Society
Page 2 The 2023 Annual Meeting of the International Genetic Epidemiology Society
Mental disorders capture a range of diseases that affect
cognition, emotion, and behavioral control, most commonly
including depression, bipolar disorder, psychosis, dementia,
and developmental disorders. Parental mental disorder is highly
prevalent, 15 to 23% of children live with a parent with a mental
disorder worldwide, and children of parents with a mental
disorder are at a high risk of developing a mental disorder
themselves (Leijdesdorff et al, 2017). This intergenerational
transmission not only perpetuates mental health conditions
but also places the offspring into a significantly disadvantaged
position; poor mental health of parents limits socioeconomic
and educational attainment (Currie, 2009). However, factors
like variability in parental disorder severity, the mental health
of the other parent, and reporting tendencies can affect the
child’s outcome. The current literature presents evidence for
a patterning of mental health mostly as environmental, but
there is no clear consensus on whether the transmission of
mental health arises from environmental or through direct
genetic inheritance. Particularly, designs that do not account
for genetic factors in parent-child associations often suffer from
confounding and fail to conclude whether the associations are
causal (Jami et al, 2021). Molecular genetics provide a novel
way of interrogating the genetic and environmental effect.
Therefore, intergenerational studies of mental health that
use molecular genetics are able to investigate the underlying
parent-child mental health associations and interrogate to
what extent these association are causal. Here we systematically
review the literature and synthesize the findings of studies
using molecular genetics to investigate these hypotheses. Our
initial abstract search yielded 1,669 papers, of which 1,375 were
excluded, as they did not meet our inclusion criteria. Thus, we
had 294 papers at the full paper screening stage. Then 280
papers were excluded due to not having molecular genetic
information. Finally, data extraction yielded 14 papers that had
information on mental health disorders and utilized molecular
genetics in their analyses. We systematically compared
those studies on transmission of mental disorders that used
molecular genetic data, focusing on their instruments, effect
estimates presented, and diagnostic metrics used. We first
provide a comprehensive overview of mechanisms that might
lead to an association between parental mental disorders and
offspring mental health. We then summarized the literature
using molecular genetics to investigate the intergenerational
transmission of mental health disorders.
References: Currie, J. (2009). Healthy, wealthy, and wise:
Socioeconomic Status, poor health in childhood, and human
capital development. Journal of Economic Literature, 47(1), 87-
122. doi: 10.1257/jel.47.1.8
Jami ES, Hammerschlag AR, Bartels M, et al. (2021) Parental
characteristics and offspring mental health and related
outcomes: A systematic review of genetically informative
literature.  Translational Psychiatry, Translational Psychiatry
11(1).
4
Polygenic Risk Score for Partial Lipodystrophy Based on
Clustered Phenotypes – Modelling and Validation in UK
Biobank and Oxford Biobank
Naeimeh Atabaki-Pasdar1,2,3*, Daniel E. Coral3
, Matt Neville1,2,
Katherine Pinnick1,2, Eirini Trichia4,5, Ana Viñuela6
, Fredrik Karpe1,2
1
The Oxford Centre for Diabetes, Endocrinology and Metabolism
(OCDEM), University of Oxford, Oxford, United Kingdom; 2
The
NIHR Oxford Biomedical Research Centre (BRC), Oxford University
Hospitals (OUH) Trust, Oxford, United Kingdom; 3
Genetic
and Molecular Epidemiology Unit, Lund University Diabetes
Centre, Department of Clinical Science, Lund University, Skåne
University Hospital, Malmö, Sweden; 4
Clinical Trial Service Unit
& Epidemiological Studies Unit (CTSU), Nuffield Department of
Population Health (NDPH), University of Oxford, United Kingdom;
5
MRC Population Health Research Unit, CTSU, NDPH, University
of Oxford, United Kingdom; 6
Biosciences Institute, Faculty of
Medicine, Newcastle University, Newcastle Upon Tyne, United
Kingdom
Human fat distribution is strongly associated with the
incidence of coronary heart disease (CHD). The rare monogenic
familial partial lipodystrophies (FPLD2-3) show this in the
extreme. A common phenocopy, FPLD1, has a supposedly
polygenic background, but this is poorly characterised.
The characteristic phenotypic triad includes loss of leg fat
mass, raised plasma triglycerides and insulin resistance. We
developed a phenotype-clustered polygenic characterisation
of FPLD1 by utilising GWAS summary data from GIANT, MAGIC
and GLGC consortia.
Pre-processing GWAS summary data identified 281 linkage
disequilibrium-pruned SNPs, all concordantly associated with
waist-to-hip ratio, triglycerides and fasting insulin in an FPLD1
directionally consistent manner. These SNPs were utilised to
build a unified PRS on UK Biobank DEXA-derived trunk-to-leg
fat mass percentage ratio (FMR) (n=26,932). An FPLD1 binary
outcome was defined as the top FMR decile (>1.23 women
and >1.74 men). Shrinkage regressions were applied, which
resulted in building a new FPLD1-PRS of 80 SNPs with a top
decile OR of 3.7 (P value=2e-16) and validated in the Oxford
Biobank (n=4,547) showing OR of 3.86 (P value=3.13e-05).
We then explored the association of the FPLD1-PRS with
incident CHD in UK Biobank (n=335,964, 6% cases), showing a
significant OR of 1.22 (P value=2e-16). Finally, to improve the
predictability of FPLD1, we used machine learning methods to
combine the PRS with other relevant clinical features.
The phenotype-clustered approach to creating a PRS
for FPLD1 resulted in an effective definition of the complex
condition. The PRS showed a substantial effect on incident
CHD.
5
Leveraging Identity by Descent within Biobanks to
Elucidate Genetic Architecture of Dilated Cardiomyopathy
James T. Baker1
*, Hung-Hsin Chen1
, Quinn S. Wells1,2,3, David C.
Samuels1,4, Jennifer E. Below1
1
Vanderbilt Genetics Institute, Division of Genetic Medicine,
Vanderbilt University Medical Center, Nashville, Tennessee, United
States of America; 2
Department of Medicine, Vanderbilt University
Medical Center, Nashville, Tennessee, United States of America; 3
Presentation Abstracts Page 3
Department of Pharmacology, Vanderbilt University, Nashville,
Tennessee, United States of America; 4
Department of Molecular
Physiology & Biophysics, Vanderbilt University School of Medicine,
Nashville, Tennessee, United States of America
Dilated cardiomyopathy (DCM), characterized by cardiac
dilation and contractile dysfunction in the absence of abnormal
cardiac loading or advance coronary artery disease, affects up
to 1:250 individuals and is responsible for ~40% of cardiac
transplants. Genetic testing can be used for diagnosis and clinical
care but often fails to identify a casual variant and ~ 1/3 of test
return only variants of uncertain significance. We used genomic
segments shared identically-by-descent (IBD) to locate causal
DCM variants. We identified pairwise IBD segments ≥ 3 cM
using hap-IBD within 69,819 individuals of European ancestry
as identified by PCA within Vanderbilt University Medical
Centers biobank, BioVU. We clustered these individuals who
shared an IBD segment containing the rare DCM associated
missense mutation p.Arg636His into networks using a random
walk where the segment length was used as a probability
weight. This approach identified a network of 33 individuals
significantly enriched for carrying the p.Arg636His variant (5
carriers, p=4.13e-12). Whole exome sequencing validated all
the genotyping calls for all individuals in this network. We then
constructed a dendrogram of the network using the inverse
of the IBD segment length to calculate local familial distance
between pairs. All five p.Arg636His carriers clustered into one
branch of the dendrogram indicating that this missense variant
mutation occurred on the branch preceding their most recent
common ancestor. We identified other cardiac phenotypes
(cardiomyopathies, conduction disorders, arrhythmias, heart
failure) within their medical records for all 33 individuals and
found that these phenotypes were concentrated in the five
carriers.
6
A Cloud-Based Bioinformatic Pipeline Tool to Assess
Sex-Specific Genetic Effects on Orofacial Cleft Risk using
Genome Sequenced Trios
Seth R. Berke1*, Kanika Kanchan1,3, Eric Tobin5
, Cera Fisher5
,
Debashree Ray1,2, Claire L. Simpson4
, Alan F. Scott6
, Terri H.
Beaty1,2, Mary L. Marazita7,8, Ingo Ruczinski1
1
Department of Biostatistics, Bloomberg School of Public
Health, Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore, Maryland, United
States of America; 2
Department of Epidemiology, Bloomberg
School of Public Health, Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore,
Maryland, United States of America; 3
Division of Allergy and
Clinical Immunology, Department of Medicine, School of
Medicine, Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore, Maryland,
United States of America; 4
Department of Genetics, Genomics
and Informatics, University of Tennessee Health Science Center,
Memphis, Tennessee, United States of America; 5
CAVATICA,
Velsera, Charlestown, Massachusetts, United States of America;
6
McKusick-Nathans Institute of Genetic Medicine, Johns Hopkins
University School of Medicine, Baltimore, Maryland, United States
of America; 7
Department of Oral and Craniofacial Sciences, Center
for Craniofacial and Dental Genetics, School of Dental Medicine,
University of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, United States
of America; 8
Department of Human Genetics, Graduate School of
Public Health, University of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania,
United States of America.
Data storage and scalability for association studies using
whole genome sequencing (WGS) data present significant
concerns. Research groups often rely on local computing
clusters to overcome these issues but still experience limited
computational power and substantial expense. Recently, cloud
computing has provided a more efficient and cost-effective
strategy. Drawbacks of cloud computing include difficult
implementation with specialized software and potentially
costly “tinkering.” We recently addressed these challenges
when investigating sex-specific genetic effects on nonsyndromic orofacial clefts (OFCs) in multi-ethnic WGS data sets
generated by the Gabriella Miller Kids First initiative and stored
in the cloud-based environment CAVATICA.
Our multi-step genome-wide association study (GWAS)
pipeline originally operated on local computational
environments, involving several programming languages and
packages including the Bioconductor R package trio to perform
rapid genotypic transmission disequilibrium tests (gTDTs) to
evaluate SNP-by-sex interaction. To become cloud-based, we
first centralized these environments in CAVATICA with Docker,
which containerizes environments for delivery. Within these
ported environments, we utilized CAVATICA’s software to
construct our processing steps, which were woven together
resulting in a complete Common Workflow Language (CWL)
workflow. To reduce time and cost, these workflows utilized
parallelization and optimal instance types.
We explain here the key components and implementation
of our cloud computing approach. We also discuss its findings,
including a SNP in the RFTN1 gene on chromosome three
that shows significant differential OFC risk between the sexes
(p value = 6.1x10-11). Our methodology can extend to other
software packages and pipelines by investigators interested in
scalable high-throughput genomic analysis.
7
Revealing Genetic Signatures of Lung Cancer Histologic
Subtype Using Deep Learning
Michael J. Betti1*, Melinda C. Aldrich1
, Eric R. Gamazon1,2
1
Division of Genetic Medicine, Vanderbilt University Medical
Center, Nashville, Tennessee, United States of America; 2
Clare Hall,
University of Cambridge, Cambridge, United Kingdom
Lung cancer is a highly heterogeneous disease, and
traditional computational approaches are limited in their ability
to model its complex genetic architecture. Deep learning-based
approaches provide an opportunity to elucidate lung cancer
disease etiology through modeling non-linear relationships
within high-dimensional genomic data.
We leveraged tumor gene expression, DNA methylation,
miRNA, and histology data from 962 non-small cell lung
cancer cases in The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA). We trained
an initial series of three fully connected neural networks using
TCGA genomics data to distinguish between adenocarcinoma
and squamous cell carcinoma. Due to the poor performance
of the fully connected miRNA-based model, a more complex
convolutional network (CNN) architecture was subsequently
trained. Genomics-based model performance was compared
against that of a state-of-the-art histology image-based CNN. 
Page 4 The 2023 Annual Meeting of the International Genetic Epidemiology Society
Finally, we utilized Shapley Additive Explanations to identify
genomic features most highly contributing to each model’s
predictions.
Gene expression and DNA methylation-based models
performed well, with area under the receiver operator curves
(AUCs) in the test set at 0.89 and 0.96, respectively. However, the
fully connected miRNA model achieved poor performance (0.61
AUC). Using a CNN-based architecture, however, the miRNA
model achieved an AUC of 1.0. Each genomics-based model
achieved higher performance than the image-based model
(AUC 0.80). Using Shapley Additive Explanations, we found that
although thousands of individual mRNAs and methylated CpG
sites contributed to their respective model’s predictions, only
~200 of the 1,534 miRNAs seemed to significantly influence
histologic prediction. This suggests that miRNAs may be
promising targets for future diagnostic gene panel design.
8
Sex-specific Blood DNA Methylation in Rab-regulatory
Genes Underly Sex-biased Risk of Recurrence in Unprovoked
Venous Thromboembolism
Ohanna C. Bezerra1
*, Marc Rodger2
, Michael J. Kovacs3
, Gregoire
Le Gal4
, Pierre E. Morange5
, Gaëlle Munsch6, David-Alexandre
Trégouët6
,Celia M. T. Greenwood7,8, France Gagnon1
1
Dalla Lana School of Public Health, University of Toronto,
Toronto, Canada; 2
Department of Medicine, McGill University,
Montreal, Canada; 3Department of Medicine, University of
Western Ontario, London, Canada; 4
Department of Medicine,
Ottawa Hospital Research Institute, University of Ottawa, Ottawa,
Canada; 5
Cardiovascular and Nutrition Research Center, AixMarseille University, Marseille, France; 6University of Bordeaux,
Bordeaux Population Health Research Center, INSERM U1219,
Bordeaux, France; 7
Lady Davis Institute, Jewish General Hospital,
Montreal, Canada; 8
Department of Epidemiology, Biostatistics and
Occupational Health, McGill University, Montreal, Canada
Deciding whether to stop oral anticoagulants beyond
initial treatment (3-6 months) after an unprovoked venous
thromboembolism (VTE) is challenging and controversial,
partially due to an intriguingly higher risk of recurrence in
men after therapy discontinuation compared to women.
In preliminary work, we observed sex-specific blood DNA
methylation (DNAm) marks in vitamin K cycle genes, relevant
to the coagulation cascade and vascular integrity. We
hypothesized that sex-specific DNAm are associated with
the observed sex-biased VTE recurrence (rVTE). Using the
EPIC array, we performed a sex-stratified epigenome-wide
association study with rVTE in 417 Europeans (REVERSE I
study). We identified two male (TBC1D22B and ZHX2) and one
female (DENND3) hypomethylated CpG sites associated with
rVTE (p value < 7×10−8). The female association displayed the
same direction of effect in 139 French VTE women, although
not significant (MARTHA study). TBC1D22B and DENND3
are regulators of the Rab family proteins involved in vesicle
trafficking, corroborating findings on the participation of Rab in
rVTE. A follow-up methylation quantitative trait locus (meQTLs)
analysis within 250Kb around the associated CpGs in REVERSE I
identified cis-meQTL variants modulating DENND3 methylation,
also reported as expression QTL in whole blood by GTEx. The
synonymous variant rs1045303 significantly decreased DNAm
of probe cg03401656 in rVTE, implying that genetic variants may
mediate the effect of DNAm on overall recurrence. Our results
showing independent DNAm sites associated with sex-specific
rVTE may optimize decision-making on prophylaxis after a first
event. Replication and functional analyses can expand insights
into the molecular mechanisms driving sex-biased rVTE.
10
Integrating Large-scale Priors for In-silico Functionalization
of GWAS Associated Loci Using Machine Learning Models
Krittika Bhattacharyya1,2*, Samsiddhi Bhattacharjee2
1
Department of Statistics, University of Calcutta, Kolkata, India;
2
National Institute of Biomedical Genomics, Kalyani, India
Identification of causal genetic variants and understanding
their regulatory mechanisms is crucial for comprehending
the genetic etiology of complex traits. Although genomewide association studies (GWAS) have successfully identified
variants associated with these complex traits, interpreting their
causal role remains ambiguous due to three main challenges:
(1) complex linkage disequilibrium (LD) among associated
variants, making it difficult to distinguish true causal variants
from false positives, (2) a majority of associated variants residing
in noncoding regions, and (3) limited availability of large gold
standard sets of regulatory variants for training and validating
machine learning models.
To address these challenges, our proposed novel statistical
method combines machine learning (ML) and Bayesian
techniques to integrate functional annotations and tissue/
cell-type specific epigenomic landscapes, enabling efficient
identification of causal variants, target genes, and regulatory
mechanisms. Our approach utilizes Colocalization (e.g., Coloc),
fine mapping (e.g., Sum of Single Effects Regression Model or
SuSiE), along with the machine learning technique XGBoost.
The NHGRI-EBI GWAS catalog, HAPLOREG database, GTEx, and
summary GWAS datasets are used to train our ML models. By
systematically prioritizing causal variants, identifying regulated
cis-genes and predicting potential regulatory mechanism, our
approach can help in guiding wet-lab validation experiments
and reduce resource burden. We apply our method to integrate
GWAS summary data, GTEx v8 data, LD, and functional
annotations for quantitative lipid traits in relevant tissues. The
application illustrates the potential of this approach to interpret
the associated loci of lipid traits and prioritize mediating genes,
thus shedding light on their genetic causality in cardiovascular
diseases.
11
Predicting Gene-Driven Cortical Changes in Neurologic
Disease through the Neuroimaging PheWAS
Xavier Bledsoe, Eric Gamazon
Vanderbilt University, Division of Human Genetics, Nashville,
Tennessee, United States of America
Neuropsychiatric diseases are associated with alterations
in neuromorphology. These changes possess tremendous
potential as a means of understanding the natural progression
and pathophysiology of disease. Unfortunately, it is difficult to
discriminate between changes that drive vs. result from the
trait. Here we describe a novel methodology to (1) identify
endogenous neurologic consequences of trait associated 
Presentation Abstracts Page 5
transcriptomic variation and (2) partition these neurologic
changes according to their dominant transcriptomic drivers.
Using JTI-PrediXcan, we generated a transcriptome wide
atlas of associations between genetically regulated gene
expression and over 3,000 neuroimaging measures. Leveraging
schizophrenia GReX associations from the most recent genome
wide association study meta-analysis, we perform a phenome
wide association study (PheWAS) of neuroimaging features to
highlight schizophrenia genes whose endogenous expression
is associated with neuroimaging measures in the UKB ( P<0.005).
We consider only imaging measures in the UKB that were
independently associated with schizophrenia in clinical studies.
For each gene, we use a binarized multiplicative model to predict
neuromorphologic change in the context of schizophrenia. We
then cross reference the clinical schizophrenia neuroimaging
study with the predictions for each region and annotate generegion pairs according to predictive accuracy.
We identify associations between 22 schizophrenia genes
and 40 schizophrenia neuroimaging measures. 65% of these
neuroimaging measures are accurately modeled by expression
of at least one schizophrenia gene.
As drivers of subclinical trait-associated brain changes in
healthy individuals, these genes represent targets for further
analyses. This methodology represents a generalizable approach
to matching trait genes with trait associated neuroimaging
measures.
12
Unravelling the Interplay between Type 2 Diabetes,
Genetics, and Metabolite Levels
Ozvan Bocher1*, Archit Singh1,2, Ana Luiza Arruda1,2, Peter
Kreitmaier1,2, Andrei Barysenka1,3, William Rayner1,3, Eleftheria
Zeggini1,3
1
Institute of Translational Genomics, Helmholtz Zentrum
München, German Research Center for Environmental Health,
Neuherberg, Germany; 2
Technical University of Munich (TUM),
TUM School of Medicine, Munich, Germany; 3
Technical University
of Munich (TUM) and Klinikum Rechts der Isar, TUM School of
Medicine, Munich, Germany
Type 2 diabetes (T2D) represents a major health burden
for which genetics has been successfully investigated in large
GWAS. The remaining challenge lies in fully understanding
the role of these variants in biology giving rise to disease,
something which can be investigated through metabolomics.
We sought to investigate the interplay between genetics,
metabolomics, and T2D risk in the UK Biobank cohort. We first
conducted a bidirectional Mendelian randomization study to
assess causal relationships between metabolite levels and T2D
risk. We found only a few of the 164 absolute metabolite levels
tested to be causal of T2D, but half of them to be caused by
T2D (with p value down to 10-61), including an increase in amino
acids and glucose levels, and a decrease in cholesterol classes.
Some of these metabolites are also seen to be associated
with specific T2D complications such as HDL cholesteryl
esters showing lower values in T2D individuals with kidney
complications compared to those without complications (β=-
0.55, p=3.66x10-8). Secondly, using a differential metabolite
QTL analysis, we describe a different genetic regulation of
22 metabolites between individuals with and without T2D,
including glycine (β=0.41, p values down to 5x10-25) and lowdensity lipoproteins (β=0.53, p=1.61x10-12). Additionally, T2D
was found to cause changes in eight of these 22 metabolite
levels. This work provides a better understanding of the
metabolic changes induced by the occurrence of T2D. Although
further work is needed to confirm these results, they provide
potential directions to investigate T2D metabolic consequences
and related subsequent complications.
13
Metabolic Reprogramming Induced by Periodic Veganism
in Humans
Ozvan Bocher1*, Archit Singh1,2, Ana Luiza Arruda1,2, Peter
Kreitmaier1,2, Andrei Barysenka1,3, William Rayner1,3, Eleftheria
Zeggini1,3
1
Institute of Translational Genomics, Helmholtz Zentrum
München, German Research Center for Environmental Health,
Neuherberg, Germany; 2
Technical University of Munich (TUM),
TUM School of Medicine, Munich, Germany; 3
Technical University
of Munich (TUM) and Klinikum Rechts der Isar, TUM School of
Medicine, Munich, Germany
The biological mechanisms underlying the effects of
dietary restriction (DR) on health remain to be elucidated. To
address this, we present the FastBio study comprising 200
periodic vegan (PV) and 211 non-vegan (NV) individuals. PV
individuals alternate between veganism and omnivory for
religious reasons, totaling approximately 200 days of veganism
annually, while NV are continuously omnivorous. Molecular
profiles for 1,455 proteins and 249 metabolites were measured
for all individuals at two timepoints defined by PV diet: during a
period of omnivory and during a period where PV had abstained
from animal products for 3-4 weeks. Molecular profiles were
compared across timepoints for each dietary group using
paired differential expression analyses. We report 410 and 201
differentially expressed proteins at FDR<5% for PV and NV
groups respectively, with 264 unique to PV, including proteins
with a role in browning of adipose tissue, bone degradation,
T-cell function, and cognition. For metabolomics profiles, NV
and PV individuals display a significant shift in one and 168
metabolites respectively. Significant alterations of these 168
metabolites in the restriction timepoint include decreased
percentages of saturated fatty acids, decreased levels of valine
and cholesterol classes but also increased levels of alanine
and glutamine, most of which are associated with preventive
effects from complex diseases. Overall, our study highlights a
rapid metabolic shift in PV individuals driven by 3-4 weeks of
abstinence from animal products. While further work is needed
to elucidate the biological pathways impacted, our results
suggest that periodic veganism has mostly positive effects on
human health.
14
A Method to Quantify Bias and Identify Spurious
Correlations in Biobanks
Lindsay B. Breidenbach1
*, Lea K. Davis1
1
Vanderbilt Genetics Institute, Vanderbilt University, Nashville,
Tennessee, United States of America
Biobanks collect medical, genomic, and/or survey
data across many participants. Biobanks often link back to 
Page 6 The 2023 Annual Meeting of the International Genetic Epidemiology Society
participants’ medical records. These databases are huge and
allow researchers better statistical power. Genome-wide
association studies (GWAS) and other association studies
capitalize on this increased power to find these new smaller
correlations and interactions. However, those researchers lose
the ability to gather data as part of their study design. This
creates a rift between the data a hypothesis needs, and the data
a biobank has. For example, hypotheses that require lab values
often deal with higher amounts of missing data, as most labs
are not uniformly ordered across all subjects. These rifts create
bias. Enough uncontrolled bias creates spurious findings that
are statistically significant but aren’t biologically driven.
To address this, we created an R package that simulates bias in
datasets and compares those to unbiased simulated data. We
posit that in this comparison, one can quantify how much bias
is behind the final effect estimates. With the program, users can
model which variables bias and affect others through directed
acyclic graphs. Users can then employ Bayesian networks
to quantify the extent to which variables impact each other.
This method allows researchers to flexibly model a variety of
biases that are unique to their hypotheses. Once the bias is
quantified, users can easily see how much of their findings can
be explained through bias alone. Researchers can then separate
the insightful correlations from those which are just statistically
significant.
15
Novel Systematic Method for Identifying Congenital
Anomaly Cases in the EHR for the Purpose Identifying New
Causes of Congenital Anomalies
Elly Brokamp, MS, CGC; Lisa Bastarache, MS; Rizwan Hamid,
PhD, MD; Nancy Cox, PhD; Megan Shuey, PhD
Vanderbilt University Medical Center
Congenital anomalies (CAs) affect approximately 3% of live
births and are the leading cause of infant death. The cause of
approximately 80% CAs is unknown and for the 20% with an
identified cause, variability in penetrance suggests additional
drivers of risk exist. Research to understand the causes of CAs
is hampered by the lack of a uniform identification method
in electronic health records (EHRs). We demonstrate the first
large-scale effort to define and characterize CAs and multiple
CAs (MCA) in the EHR and provide a quantitative way to
evaluate associations between CAs and genetically diagnosed
conditions.
Using phecodeX, the number of CA phecodes, aggregates
of clinical billing codes, increased from 56 to 365. These new
codes provide substantially improved granularity of these
diagnoses as well as more accurately mirror body system. Using
a large clinical cohort, we demonstrate the clinical phenome
associated with these conditions and demonstrate that the
definition of MCA based on major vs minor conditions is
arbitrary and inadequately reflects the severity of conditions.
Further, we provide a quantitative assessment of potential
CA causal genetic diseases. Only 85 (19.7%) of genetic disease
codes have a known association with CAs based on literature
review. For the remaining we performed phenome-wide
association studies to identify association of these conditions
with CAs. An additional 16 (3.7%) codes significantly associated
with CAs (Bonferroni p< 2.75x10-5).
These results are critical for genetic and epidemiological
studies of CAs by improving case determination and
differentiating idiopathic CAs from those with known cause.
16
Signal Mapping Methods for Region-level Association
Adaptive to Local Linkage Disequilibrium (LD)
Myriam Brossard1*, Kexin Luo1
, Delnaz Roshandel2
, Fatemeh
Yavartanoo3
, Yun Joo Yoo3
, Andrew D. Paterson2,4, Shelley B.
Bull1,4
1
Lunenfeld-Tanenbaum Research Institute, Sinai Health, Toronto,
Canada; 2
Hospital for Sick Children Research Institute, Toronto,
Canada; 3
Seoul National University, Seoul, Korea; 4
Dalla Lana
School of Public Health, University of Toronto, Toronto, Canada
Compared to single variant analysis, region-level
testing of multiple variants reduces genome-wide testing
burden, is robust to genetic heterogeneity, and can be more
powerful when there are multiple causal variants, but regionlevel signal-mapping methods are lacking. To develop and
evaluate methods, we simulated a large case-control dataset
of melanoma risk (n=40,000) characterized by multiple
causal variants (CVs) in MC1R (16q24.3) carried by distinct risk
haplotypes. Using 1000G European-ancestry haplotypes in
16q with extended linkage disequilibrium (LD), we generated
melanoma status (balanced design) under a log-additive model
for joint effects of fiveCVs. To detect region-level association, we
partitioned 16q (107,406 SNPs) into 2,394 quasi-independent
LD-blocks and applied regression-based tests in each region,
including a reduced-dimension multiple-linear-combination
(MLC) test. MLC clusters SNPs within a region into LD bins, and
combines multi-SNP regression estimates into bin-level effects
which are aggregated into a reduced-df test adaptive to LD. At
PGW-Bonferroni≤5.4x10-7, we detected 39 regions: in the top region,
1126 SNPs clustered into 60 LD bins (with each CV assigned to
a bin) while the other 38 regions included CV proxies. These
regions lost significance when region-level tests were repeated,
conditional on a MLC-derived region-level summary variable
from the top region. Within the top region, backward selection
of 60 MLC-LD-bin-level summary variables (PBonferroni=8.3x10-4)
yielded six LD bins, including all five CVs. In the challenging
setting of long-range LD and complex genetic architecture, LDadaptive region-level signal mapping can efficiently prioritize
regions and SNP clusters for fine-mapping studies. Evaluations
in other genetic architectures are warranted.
17
Adjusting Collider Bias for Disease Progression Trait Using
Bivariate Mendelian Randomization
Siyang Cai1
, Frank Dudbridge1
1
Department of Health Sciences, University of Leicester
Genome-wide association studies (GWAS) have
provided a large number of genetic markers that can be
used as instrumental variables in a conventional Mendelian
randomization (MR) analysis to access the true causal effect
of a risk factor on an outcome. An extension of MR analysis,
multi-variable Mendelian randomization, has been proposed
by Burgess et al. (2014) to handle pleiotropy with multiple
risk factors. Meanwhile, adjusting or stratifying outcome on a
variable that is associated with the outcome of interest involves 
Presentation Abstracts Page 7
collider bias. An outcome that represents progression of the
disease conditioning by selecting only the cases will cause
a biased estimation of true causal effect of the risk factor of
interest on the outcome. Recently, Cai et al. (2022) developed
Corrected Weighted Least Squares (CWLS) and instrument
effect regression to adjust for weak instrument bias and collider
bias. In this paper, we highlight the importance of adjusting
weak instrument bias and collider bias in a bivariate Mendelian
randomization with a risk factor of interest, a disease trait, and
the disease progression as the outcome. A generalized version
of the CWLS adjustment and instrument effect regression are
then proposed based on a multivariate IVW model, followed by
simulations demonstrate the performance of the 2-step CWLS
adjustment, with illustrations of type-1 errors of adjusted true
causals of interest, providing less biased adjustment under null
hypothesis with an estimated standard error compared to other
existing multivariate MR methods. A further discussion is given
based on cases with non-zero casuals between three traits and
also the use of adjustment in two-sample MR.
18
Lymphocyte Count-derived Polygenic Score and Interindividual Variability in CD4 T-cell Recovery in Response to
Antiretroviral Therapy
Kathleen M. Cardone1
, Scott Dudek1
, Karl Keat2
, Yuki Bradford1
,
Zinhle Cindi1
, Eric S. Daar3
, Roy Gulick4
, Sharon A. Riddler5
,
Jeffrey L. Lennox6
, Phumla Sinxadi7
, David W. Haas8,9, Marylyn
D. Ritchie1,10
1
Department of Genetics, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia,
Pennsylvania, United States of America; 2
Genomics and
Computational Biology Graduate Program, University of
Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, United States of
America; 3
Lundquist Institute at Harbor-UCLA Medical Center,
Torrance, California, United States of America; 4
Weill Cornell
Medicine, New York, New York, New York, United States of
America; 5
University of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania,
United States of America; 6
Emory University School of Medicine,
Atlanta, Georgia, United States of America; 7
Division of Clinical
Pharmacology, Department of Medicine, University of Cape
Town, Cape Town, South Africa; 8
Vanderbilt University Medical
Center, Nashville, Tennessee, United States of America; 9
Meharry
Medical College, Nashville, Tennessee, United States of America;
10Institute for Biomedical Informatics, University of Pennsylvania,
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, United States of America
Among people living with HIV, CD4 T-cell recovery on
antiretroviral therapy (ART) varies considerably. We explored
whether a polygenic score, derived from summary statistics
for absolute lymphocyte count from the general population
(PGSlymph), explained variability in baseline CD4 T-cell
count (CD4) prior to ART, and change on ART. We explored
associations with pre-ART CD4 (n=4,959) and change from
baseline to week 48 on ART (n=3,274) among participants in
prospective, randomized ART studies of the AIDS Clinical Trials
Group. We examined ancestry specific PGSlymph, applied to all
participants and to African and European ancestral groups
separately. Multivariate models that included PGSlymph, baseline
plasma HIV-1 RNA, age, sex, and 15 principal components
(PCs) explained approximately 26-27% of variability in baseline
CD4, but PGSlymph accounted for <1% of this. Models that also
included baseline CD4 explained approximately 7-9% of
variability in CD4 increase on ART, but PGSlymph accounted for
<1% of this. In univariate analyses, PGSlymph was not significantly
associated with either phenotype. Among individuals of African
ancestry, African-specific PGS was significantly associated with
CD4 increase in the multivariate model but not the univariate
model. When applied to lymphocyte count in the general
population, PGS explained approximately 6-10% of variability
in multivariate models (including age, sex, and PCs) but only
about 1% in univariate models. These results highlight the
importance of including covariates in PGS models. In summary,
a lymphocyte count PGS derived from the general population
was not consistently associated with CD4 T-cell recovery on
ART, nonetheless, clinical covariates are critical in building
polygenic scores.
19
Factors Influencing the Portability of Gene Expression
Imputation in Transcriptome-Wide Association Studies
across Ancestry
Yung-Han Chang1,2, Arjun Bhattacharya3,4, Yi. Ding3,5, Bogdan
Pasaniuc2,3,5
1
Department of Biostatistics, University of California Los
Angeles, Los Angeles, California, United States of America; 2
Department of Computational Medicine, David Geffen School
of Medicine, University of California Los Angeles, Los Angeles,
California, United States of America; 3
 Department of Pathology
and Laboratory Medicine, David Geffen School of Medicine,
University of California  Los Angeles, Los Angeles, California,
United States of America; 4
 Institute for Quantitative and
Computational Biosciences, David Geffen School of Medicine,
University of  California, Los Angeles, California, United States of
America; 5 Bioinformatics Interdepartmental Program, University
of California Los Angeles, California, United States of America
Transcriptome-wide association studies (TWAS) relies on
imputation of gene expression based on models trained in
reference expression quantitative trait locus (eQTL) datasets.
Previous studies have showed the challenges of TWAS when
attempting to predict gene expression across different
ancestry. Here, we examine potential factors that drive this lack
of portability of expression models.
Across 1,000 simulations at 22 gene loci (one per
chromosome), we simulate a training eQTL dataset of European
samples and test sets of both European and African populations
based on the linkage disequilibrium (LD) patterns in 1000G
and across a variety of genetic architectures. We build a sum
of single effects (SuSiE) linear regression model in the training
dataset and predict expression in the test datasets.
Our findings indicate that, in general, as the proportion
of causal eQTLs increases, percent variance explained (PVE)
decreases in the European and African test sets, respectively.
We also examine differences in PVE across three factors in
genetic architecture. First, we examined the impact of varying
allele frequencies of the causal eQTLs and found no significant
differences. Second, we explored the effect of changing the
ratio of heritability between two populations, and observed a
decrease in the PVE difference as the ratio increases. Third, we
are investigating how differences in LD across the datasets are
associated with performance.
Page 8 The 2023 Annual Meeting of the International Genetic Epidemiology Society
In conclusion, our findings emphasize the importance of
considering differences in heritability, causal eQTL proportion,
and LD when aiming to improve the portability of gene
expression imputation across ancestry.
20
Autism Heterogeneity Related to Early-life Exposures:
Multi-ancestry Results from the SPARK Sample
Charikleia Chatzigeorgiou1,2, Behrang Mahjani1,2, Marina
Natividad Avila1,2, Paul O’Reilly1,3, Niamh Mullins1,3, Magdalena
Janecka1,2,3,4
1
Department of Psychiatry, Mount Sinai School of Medicine,
New York, New York; 2
Seaver Autism Center for Research and
Treatment, Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York,
New York, United States of America; 3
Department of Genetics and
Genomic Sciences, Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New
York, New York, United States of America; 4
Mindich Child Health
and Development Institute, Icahn School of Medicine at Mount
Sinai, New York, New York, United States of America
Autism spectrum disorder (ASD) is a highly heritable
neurodevelopmental disorder with complex etiology. While
previous epidemiological studies have identified prematurity
as a risk factor for the disorder, the mechanisms underlying
its potential effects on neurodevelopment remain unknown.
Given that the duration of pregnancy in the general population
is influenced in part by genetic factors, and our earlier results
suggested a distinct set of medical comorbidities in pre-term
born individuals with ASD, we investigated systematic genetic
differences between ASD cases born term and pre-term in
order to interrogate potential biological differences between
these groups of ASD cases.
Individuals including in Simons Foundation Powering
Autism Research for Knowledge (SPARK) dataset who had an
ASD diagnosis and were born preterm (cases) were compared
with ASD individuals born in term (controls) (Ntotal=31,947).
Ancestry was estimated through principal component analysis
and random forest plot after merging with 1000G and HGDP.
Three ethnicity specific GWAS were conducted [African/
African American (ncases=196, ncontrols=1722), Admixed American
(ncases=396, ncontrols=3955), Non-Finnish European (ncases=2296,
ncontrols=19173)] adjusting for the 10 principal components.
One SNP from the African/American (rs78395263, p=3.92x10-08)
and one from the Admixed American GWAS (rs77818427,
p=1.04x10-08) reached the genome-wide level of significance
(p<5.0 x 10-08). Metanalysis of the association results from the
different ancestries was done with the use of METAL. No SNP
was found to reach the genome-wide level of significance.
To advance biological insights among the set of significant
variants and map them to disease-relevant genes and
pathways, functional genomic resources that provide data on
intermediate molecular phenotypes were used to functionally
annotate variants and map them to genes (https://fuma.
ctglab.nl/). FUMA analyses revealed 24 possible causal genes
pinpointed by positional mapping and expression quantitative
trait locus mapping, including OCA2 (p=1.91 x 10-7 previously
associated with metabolic disorders), EXOC6B (p= 1.37 x 10-06,
previously shown to associate with immune disease), and SRP54
(p=1.4 x 10-6 previously linked to fetal and blood disorders). Five
candidate SNPs in FUMA were associated with educational
attainment, triglyceride levels, and serum alkaline phosphatase
levels in the GWAS catalogue.
In conclusion, our findings revealed genes that could
highlight the biological pathways distinguishing ASD cases
born term and pre-term. The analyses are ongoing to explore
phenome-wide associations of genetic liability to being born
pre-term and gain new insights into autism heterogeneity
related to early-life exposures.
21
Inference of Causal Metabolite Networks in the Presence
of Invalid Instrumental Variables with GWAS Summary
Data
Siyi Chen1
, Zhaotong Lin1
, Xiaotong Shen2
, Ling Li3
, Wei Pan1
1
Division of Biostatistics, School of Public Health, University of
Minnesota, Minneapolis, Minnesota, United States of America;
2
School of Statistics, University of Minnesota, Minneapolis,
Minnesota, United States of America; 3
Department of Experimental
and Clinical Pharmacology, College of Pharmacy, University of
Minnesota, Minneapolis, Minnesota, United States of America
We propose structural equation models (SEMs) as a general
framework to infer causal networks for metabolites and other
complex traits. Traditionally SEMs are used only for individuallevel data under the assumption that all instrument variables
(IVs) are valid. To overcome these limitations, we propose both a
one- and two-sample approaches for causal network inference
based on SEMs that can: 1) perform causal analysis and discover
causal relationships among multiple traits; 2) account for the
possible presence of some invalid IVs; 3) allow for data analysis
using only GWAS summary statistics when individual-level data
are not available; 4) consider the possibility of bi-directional
relationships between traits. Our method employs a simple
stepwise selection to identify invalid IVs, thus avoiding false
positives while possibly increasing true discoveries based on
two-stage least squares (2SLS). We use both real GWAS data
and simulated data to demonstrate the superior performance
of our method over the standard 2SLS/SEMs. For real data
analysis, our proposed approach is applied to a human blood
metabolite GWAS summary dataset to uncover putative causal
relationships among the metabolites; we also identify some
metabolites (putative) causal to Alzheimer’s disease (AD),
which, along with the inferred causal metabolite network,
suggest some possible pathways of metabolites involved in AD
22
Investigating Pleiotropy as an Explanation for the Inverse
Association between Cancer and Dementia
Dorothy Chen1
, John S. Witte2
, Thomas J. Hoffmann1
, Jingxuan
Wang1,3, Peter Buto1,3, Sarah F. Ackley1,3, Sara Rashkin4
, M. Maria
Glymour1,3, Rebecca E. Graff1 (corresponding author) 1
Department of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, University of
California, San Francisco, San Francisco, California, United
States of America; 2
Department of Epidemiology and Population
Health, Stanford University, Stanford, California, United States of
America; 3
Department of Epidemiology, Boston University, Boston,
Massachusetts, United States of America; 4
Center for Applied
Bioinformatics, St. Jude  Children’s Research Hospital, Memphis,
Tennessee, United States of America
Presentation Abstracts Page 9
Numerous epidemiological studies have documented an
inverse relationship between cancer and dementia, such that
diagnosis with either condition is associated with a reduced risk
of diagnosis with the other. Little is still known about genetic
factors that may be inversely related to the two diseases, both
of which are complex polygenic traits. Subset-based association
analyses offer a systematic method for investigating pleiotropy,
the phenomenon whereby the same genetic factor affects
more than one complex trait. We leveraged summary statistics
from genome-wide association studies to evaluate the genetic
overlap between 18 common cancer types paired with 3
dementia phenotypes (all-cause dementia, Alzheimer’s disease
(AD), vascular dementia) in the UK Biobank (437,347 European
ancestry individuals; 51,046 cancer cases, 8,143 dementia cases,
382,314 controls). We implemented ASsociation analysis based
on subSETs (ASSET) to explore all possible subsets of cancerdementia phenotypic pairs for the presence of association
signals, thereby identifying the best combination of traits to
maximize test statistics. After adjustment for multiple testing,
ASSET did not reveal any statistically or suggestively significant
(10-6) genetic variants associated with any phenotype pairs
in either the same or opposite directions. Evaluation of subthreshold signals (10-3) for an inverse association between
prostate cancer and AD identified 6 pleiotropic variants
mapping to the TET2 gene (rs6839705, rs7674220, rs1391438,
rs9884984, rs9884296, and rs1391439; P value < 0.001 for fixedeffects meta-analyses). Our findings do not provide evidence
of pleiotropic signals underlying the inverse relationship
between cancer and dementia. Future research should consider
alternative methods for assessing local and genome-wide
pleiotropy.
23
Summary Statistics from Large-scale Gene-environment
Interaction Studies for Re-analysis and Meta-analysis
Duy T. Pham,1
 Kenneth E. Westerman,2,3,4 Cong Pan,1
 Alisa K.
Manning,2,3,4 Han Chen1,5
1
Human Genetics Center, Department of Epidemiology, Human
Genetics and Environmental Sciences, School of Public Health, The
University of Texas Health Science Center at Houston, Houston,
Texas, United States of America; 2 Department of Medicine,
Clinical and Translational Epidemiology Unit, Mongan Institute,
Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, MA, United States
of America; 3
Metabolism Program, Broad Institute of MIT and
Harvard, Cambridge, MA, United States of America; 4
Department
of Medicine, Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA, United States
of America; 5
Center for Precision Health, McWilliams School of
Biomedical Informatics, The University of Texas Health Science
Center at Houston, Houston, Texas, United States of America
Genomic summary statistics have been widely shared in
genetic epidemiological research. With numerous methods and
tools developed in recent years, genomic summary statistics,
largely derived from genome-wide association studies (GWAS),
have greatly advanced the field by enabling many valuable
downstream analyses that are accurate while being much
more efficient than directly analyzing individual-level data.
They have also facilitated international collaborations by
reducing privacy concerns associated within individual-level
data sharing. However, methods and tools for generating,
managing, and analyzing genomic summary statistics from
gene-environment interaction (GEI) studies have not been
well established. As GEI studies generally require much larger
sample sizes than GWAS on marginal genetic effects to identify
interactions, which often involve up to millions of samples,
there is a pressing need for GEI-specific methods on summary
statistics. We introduce two tools to facilitate such applications,
with a focus on statistical models containing multiple geneexposure and/or gene-covariate interaction terms, built
upon recent GEI analysis software programs; REGEM uses full
summary statistics from a single, multi-exposure genome-wide
interaction study (GWIS) to derive analogous sets of summary
statistics with arbitrary subsets of exposures and interaction
covariate adjustments, without having to rerun each model
genome-wide using individual-level data. METAGEM performs
fixed-effects meta-analysis on summary statistics from multiple
studies, with multiple gene-exposure and/or gene-covariate
interactions. We demonstrate the value and efficiency of
these tools by exploring alternative methods of accounting
for ancestry-related population stratification in GWIS in the UK
Biobank and show that proper use of interaction covariates
can control the type I error rate of a pooled-ancestry GWIS
analysis and recapitulate results from the associated multiancestry meta-analysis. These programs help to maximize the
value of genomic summary statistics from diverse and complex
GEI studies, extending efforts at more inclusive and rigorous
ancestry-aware genetic epidemiology to the GEI domain.
24
FlexNet: A Flexible Network-Based Framework for
Identifying Drug-Disease Relationships for Repurposing
Opportunities and Prediction of Adverse Effects
Rui Chen1
, Quan Wang1
, Qiang Wei1
, Yan Yan1
, Yuting Tan1
,
Anshul Tiwari1
, Xue Zhong2
, Bingshan Li1
1
 Vanderbilt University; 2
 Vanderbilt University Medical Center
Predicting drug-disease relationships, such as new
indications and adverse drug reactions (ADR) for a drug,
has been a growing interest because it has significant value
on reducing the drug development and medical care cost.
To achieve effective drug repurposing and ADR prediction,
integration of heterogenous data at different levels is crucial. In
this study, we develop a computational framework that utilizes
the Random Walk with Restart algorithm to score relationships
among the three types of nodes: genes, diseases, and drugs,
integrating multi-layer networks of the nodes. Our framework
is flexible and allows for easy addition of customized networks.
We Applied the framework to 220 diseases, with integrative
networks of 1) Gene Ontology, KEGG, PPI, co-expression
networks; 2) phenotypic and semantic similarity networks for
diseases; 3) structure similarity networks for drugs; 4) bipartite
networks of drug-gene, disease-gene, and drug-disease
connections. We observed that the top scoring drug-disease
pairs align significantly in clinical trials and off-label uses,
suggesting novel repurposing opportunities in our prediction.
In parallel to drug repurposing, we found that 51% of reported
Drug-Adverse Effect Pairs (DAEPs) are in the top 100 predictions.
To further assess the prediction of ADR for new drugs, we
collected reported DAEPs for 77 drugs that were approved after 
Page 10 The 2023 Annual Meeting of the International Genetic Epidemiology Society
2015 and observed that 40.4% of reported DAEPs are within
the top 100 predictions, demonstrating our framework’s ability
to predict DAEPs. We created a comprehensive scoring table,
encompassing 1,520 drugs and 8,120 diseases, which we hope
are useful for the drug repurposing and ADR field.
25
Imputation Efficacy Across Global Human Populations
Jordan L. Cahoon1,2,3, Xinyue Rui1,*, Echo Tang2,*, Christopher
Simons2
, Jalen Langie1
, Minhui Chen1
, Ying-Chu Lo1
, Charleston
W. K. Chiang1,2,4,†
1
Center for Genetic Epidemiology, Department of Population
and Public Health Sciences, Keck School of Medicine, University
of Southern California, Los Angeles, California, United States
of America; 2
Department of Quantitative and Computational
Biology, University of Southern California, Los Angeles, California,
United States of America; 3
Department of Computer Science,
University of Southern California, Los Angeles, California,
United States of America; 4
Norris Comprehensive Cancer Center,
University of Southern California, Los Angeles, California, United
States of America
* These authors contributed equally
† Correspondence: charleston.chiang@med.usc.edu
Genotype imputation is fundamental for association
studies but lacks fairness due to the underrepresentation of
non-European ancestries. The state-of-the-art imputation
reference released by the TOPMed initiative contains admixed
African-ancestry and Hispanic/Latino samples but may still lack
representation from ancestries outside of North America. To
evaluate the efficacy of the TOPMed reference panel to impute
diverse global populations, we curated genome-wide array
data from 23 publications and imputed over 43k individuals
across 123 populations around the world. We identified several
populations where imputation accuracy paled in comparison to
that of European-ancestry populations. For instance, the mean
imputation r-squared (Rsq) for 1-5% alleles in Saudi Arabians
(N=1061), Vietnamese (N=1264), and Papua New Guineans
(N=776) were 0.79, 0.78, and 0.62, respectively, compared to
0.90-0.93 for European populations matched in sample size
and SNP content. Rsq appeared to be inversely correlated to
genetic distances to European reference, and may be more
inflated when compared to ground truth from sequencing
data for non-European populations. We also assessed metaimputation for improving imputation accuracy by combining
results from TOPMed with a reference of 1496 sequenced
individuals from Taiwan Biobank. While we found that metaimputation did not improve Rsq genome-wide, Southeast Asian
populations such as Filipino and Vietnamese experience a 0.11-
0.16 increase in mean Rsq for population-specific alleles. Taken
together, our analysis suggests that meta-imputation may
complement a large reference panel such as that of TOPMed
for underrepresented cohorts. Nevertheless, reference panels
must ultimately strive to increase diversity and size to promote
equity within genetics research.
26
Genetic Determinants of Coronary Heart Disease in
Hispanic/Latinos: Electronic Health Records
Geetha Chittoor1*, Navya Shilpa Josyula1
, Yao Tu2
, Lindsay
Fernandez-Rhodes2
, Misa Graff3
, Elizabeth Frankel4
, Lauren E.
Petty4
, Jennifer E. Below4
, Kari E. North3
, Anne E. Justice1
1
Department of Population Health Sciences, Geisinger, Danville,
Pennsylvania, United States of America; 2
Department of
Biobehavioral Health, Pennsylvania State University, State
College, Pennsylvania, United States of America; 3
Department of
Epidemiology, Gillings School of Global Public Health, University of
North Carolina at Chapel Hill, Chapel Hill, North Carolina, United
States of America; 4
Department of Medicine, Vanderbilt University
Medical Center, Nashville, Tennessee, United States of America
Electronic Health Record (EHR) data/biobanks from health
systems are increasingly being utilized for common disease
research.  EHR enhances power to discover novel genetic
variants associated with cardiometabolic traits in understudied
populations. Hence, we examined genetic variants influencing
coronary heart disease (CHD) in Hispanic/Latino (HL) adult
participants using EHR data from MyCode Community Health
Initiative (MyCode). CHD cases were defined using presence
of ICD9 or ICD10 codes in at least two different encounters,
or pertinent CHD procedure code from EHR. MyCode data
included 4,261 self-identified HL including 322 cases (50%
female) and 3,939 controls (73% female). Genome-wide
association was conducted in SAIGE adjusting CHD for age,
sex, array, and principal components using a generalized
linear mixed model. We identified a suggestively significant
locus associated with CHD on chromosome 22 (rs146418783,
β±SE=4.46±0.87, P=2.86E-07) in CELSR1, cadherin epidermal
growth factor laminin G seven-pass G-type receptor. These
cadherin domains act as homophilic binding regions and the
EGF-like domains involved in cell adhesion and receptor-ligand
interactions. CELSR1 was previously reported as a susceptibility
gene for familial bicuspid aortic valve and hypoplastic left
heart syndrome. We also identified seven novel associations on
chromosomes 10 (rs60327547), 20 (rs58041415), 3 (rs75725366,
rs4234563), 6 (rs35778273, rs80305422), and 22 (rs12106531)
associated with CHD (P<5E-06). We replicated several CHD
loci including on chromosomes 16 (rs12444314 [FOXL1]), 2
(rs1550115 [ADCY3]), and 8 (rs66778572 [LPL]). Our results
highlight several loci offering insights into CHD etiology in
HL. Further, we demonstrated the utility of EHR in identifying
susceptibility loci influencing cardiometabolic traits in HL.
27
Multi-ancestry Genome-wide Association Studies of ACE
Inhibitor-induced Cough and Chronic Dry Cough Implicate
Neurophysiological Functions
Kayesha Coley1
, Jonas Ghouse2,3, David J. Shepherd1
, Richard
Packer1,4, Catherine John1
, Robert C. Free4,5, Edward J. Hollox6
,
Louise V. Wain1,4, Martin D. Tobin1,4, Chiara Batini1,4
1
Department of Population Health Sciences, University of Leicester,
Leicester, United Kingdom; 2
Laboratory for Molecular Cardiology,
Department of Cardiology, Copenhagen University Hospital,
Rigshospitalet, Copenhagen, Denmark; 3
Laboratory for Molecular
Cardiology, Department of Biomedical Sciences, University
of Copenhagen, Copenhagen, Denmark; 4
National Institute 
Presentation Abstracts Page 11
for Health and Care Research Leicester Biomedical Research
Centre, Glenfield Hospital, Leicester, United Kingdom; 5
School of
Computing and Mathematical Sciences, University of Leicester,
Leicester, United Kingdom; 6
Department of Genetics and Genome
Biology, University of Leicester, Leicester, United Kingdom
ACE inhibitors (ACEis) are commonly prescribed for
hypertension, an important risk factor for cardiovascular
disease. Their most common adverse reaction (AR) is a dry cough
which affects 5-35% of users. As clinical guidelines recommend
a switch to an angiotensin-II receptor blocker in response to
this AR, we have leveraged such drug switches recorded in
electronic health records as a proxy for ACEi-induced cough.
We investigated the genetic determinants of ACEi-induced
cough using a combination of two methodological approaches:
(1) a single-trait, two-stage joint meta-analysis including 20,704
cases and 55,793 controls, and (2) a multi-trait genome-wide
association meta-analysis with chronic dry cough including
28,339 cases and 144,446 controls. Both analyses included
individuals of diverse genetic ancestries from the UK Biobank,
EXCEED Study, eMERGE Network and Copenhagen Hospital
Biobank. The undertaking of the multi-trait analysis was
supported by a strong genetic correlation between the two
traits and a significant association between single-trait sentinel
rs6062847-T (NTSR1) and chronic dry cough in a phenomewide association study. Functionally informed fine-mapping
of sentinel loci was used to inform variant-to-gene mapping.
Across both analyses, we identified 12 genome-wide significant
(p value <5×10–8) sentinel variants which mapped to 12 proteincoding genes. Among these, seven sentinels and seven genes
are novel. Five of the mapped genes encode proteins with
neurological functions, including neuropeptide metabolism
(NTSR1, PREP) and neurotransmission (BTBD11, GRIA3, KCNIP4,
NTSR1). This supports current hypotheses of bradykininrelated sensitivity mediated by ACEi treatment and indicates a
neurophysiological pathology of the cough reflex.
28
APOE4-stratified GWAS of Multiple Cognitive Domains in
Non-Hispanic White and Non-Hispanic Black Older Adults
Alex G Contreras1*, Skylar Walters1
, Jaclyn M. Eissman1,2,Alexandra
N. Smith1
, Shubhabrata Mukherjee3
, Michael L. Lee3
, Seo-Eun
Choi3
, Phoebe Scollard3
, Emily H. Trittschuh4,5, Jesse B. Mez6
,
William S. Bush7
, Brian W. Kunkle8
, Adam C. Naj11,12, Katherine
A. Gifford1
, Murat Bilgel28, Amanda B. Kuzma12, The Alzheimer’s
Disease Neuroimaging Initiative (ADNI), Alzheimer’s Disease
Genetics Consortium (ADGC), The Alzheimer’s Disease
Sequencing Project (ADSP), Michael L. Cuccaro8
, Carlos
Cruchaga9,10, Margaret A. Pericak-Vance8
, Lindsay A. Farrer6,13,14,
Li-San Wang12; Gerard D. Schellenberg12, Richard P. Mayeux15,16,17,
Jonathan L. Haines7
, Angela L. Jefferson1
, Walter A. Kukull18, C.
Dirk Keene19, Andrew J. Saykin20,21, Paul M. Thompson22, Eden
R. Martin8
, Marilyn S. Albert23, Sterling C. Johnson24, Corinne D.
Engelman24, Luigi Ferrucci25, David A. Bennett26, Lisa L. Barnes26,
Julie A. Schneider26, Susan M. Resnick28, Reisa A. Sperling27, Paul
K. Crane3
, Timothy J. Hohman1,2, Logan Dumitrescu1,2
1
Vanderbilt Memory and Alzheimer’s Center, Vanderbilt
University Medical Center, Nashville, Tennessee, United States
of America; 2
Vanderbilt Genetics Institute, Vanderbilt University
Medical Center, Nashville, Tennessee, United States of America;
3
Department of Medicine, University of Washington, Seattle,
WA, United States of America; 4
Department of Psychiatry and
Behavioral Sciences, University of Washington School of Medicine,
Seattle, Washington, United States of America; 5
VA Puget Sound
Health Care System, GRECC, Seattle, Washington, United States of
America; 6
Department of Neurology, Boston University Chobanian
& Avedisian School of Medicine, Boston, Massachusetts, United
States of America; 7
Cleveland Institute for Computational Biology,
Department of Population and Quantitative Health Sciences,
Case Western Reserve University, Cleveland, Ohio, United States
of America; 8
John P. Hussman Institute for Human Genomics,
University of Miami Miller School of Medicine, Miami, Florida,
United States of America; 9
Department of Psychiatry, Washington
University School of Medicine, St Louis, Missouri, United States of
America; 10NeuroGenomics and Informatics Center, Washington
University School of Medicine, St. Louis, Missouri, United States
of America; 11Department of Biostatistics, Epidemiology, and
Informatics, University of Pennsylvania Perelman School of
Medicine, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, United States of America;
12Penn Neurodegeneration Genomics Center, Department of
Pathology and Laboratory Medicine, University of Pennsylvania
Perelman School of Medicine, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, United
States of America; 13Department of Biostatistics, Boston University
School of Public Health, Boston, Massachusetts, United States of
America; 14Department of Medicine (Biomedical Genetics), Boston
University Chobanian & Avedisian School of Medicine, Boston, MA,
United States of America; 15Columbia University, New York, New
York, United States of America; 16The Taub Institute for Research
on Alzheimer’s Disease and The Aging Brain, Columbia University,
New York, New York, United States of America; 17The Institute for
Genomic Medicine, Columbia University Medical Center and The
New York Presbyterian Hospital, New York, New York, United States
of America; 18Department of Epidemiology, School of Public Health,
University of Washington, Seattle, Washington, United States of
America; 19Department of Laboratory Medicine and Pathology,
University of Washington, Seattle, Washington, United States of
America; 20Department of Radiology and Imaging Services, Indiana
University School of Medicine, Indianapolis, Indiana, United States
of America; 21Department of Medical and Molecular Genetics,
School of Medicine, Indiana University, Indianapolis, Indiana,
United States of America; 22Keck School of Medicine, University
of Southern California, Los Angeles, California, United States of
America; 23Department of Neurology, Johns Hopkins University
School of Medicine, Baltimore, Maryland, United States of America;
24Alzheimer’s Disease Research Center, University of Wisconsin
School of Medicine and Public Health, Madison, Wisconsin, United
States of America; 25Johns Hopkins University Bloomberg School
of Public Health, Baltimore, Maryland, United States of America;
26Rush Alzheimer’s Disease Center, Rush University Medical
Center, Chicago, Illinois, United States of America; 27Department
of Neurology, Massachusetts General Hospital/Harvard Medical
School, Boston, Massachusetts, United States of America;
28Laboratory of Behavioral Neuroscience National Institute on
Aging National Institutes of Health, Baltimore, Maryland, United
States of America
Apolipoprotein-E4 (APOE-ε4) is a major genetic risk factor
for late-onset Alzheimer’s disease (AD). However, the impact of
APOE-ε4 carrier status on the genetic architecture of cognitive
decline remains unclear. We conducted stratified genome-wide 
Page 12 The 2023 Annual Meeting of the International Genetic Epidemiology Society
association analyses (GWAS) to identify genetic associations
with cognitive decline in APOE-ε4 carriers and non-carriers, as
well as across two racial/ethnic groups (non-Hispanic Whites
and non-Hispanic Blacks). We analyzed a harmonized cognitive
dataset from ten aging and AD cohorts, encompassing a large
multi-ancestry population (Ntotal=36,483; NHW_ε4pos=12,047;
NHW_ε4neg=20,253; NHB_ε4pos=1,810; NHB_ ε4neg=2,373).
GWAS were performed for memory, executive function, and
language at baseline and for longitudinal decline, adjusting for
age, sex, and the nine within each ancestry group by APOE-ε4
status, followed by fixed-effect meta-analysis. We identified 14
novel associations among APOE-ε4 carriers, including variants
near the GRIN3A and NME7 genes among non-Hispanic Whites
and variants near the WDPCP gene among non-Hispanic Blacks.
In contrast, we found ten associations among APOE-ε4 noncarriers, including variants near the LOC101927668 gene in
non-Hispanic Whites and GALNT7 genes in non-Hispanic Blacks.
Notably, eQTL evidence for the association on chromosome
n among non-Hispanic White APOE-ε4 carriers/non-carriers
implicated the GRIN3A gene. Sensitivity analyses, excluding
comorbidities/subsetting individuals aged 60 and above, were
performed to confirm our findings. These preliminary results
have implications for precision medicine approaches targeting
cognitive impairment and AD prevention. Future work will
explore cross-ancestry analysis, gene-based tests, and genetic
correlations.
29
Comparative Analysis of Whole Exome Sequencing in
Bipolar Disorder Case-Control Data
Brandon J. Coombes1*, Nicholas B. Larson1
, Wenan Chen1
,
Anthony Batzler1
, Lindsay Melhuish Beaupre1
, Joanna M.
Biernacka1,2
1
Department of Quantitative Health Sciences, Mayo Clinic,
Rochester, Minnesota, United States of America; 2
Department of
Psychiatry and Psychology, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, Minnesota,
United States of America
Bipolar disorder (BD) is a complex psychiatric condition
with a strong genetic component. To gain insights into the
impact of rare variants (RVs) on BD, we performed whole
exome sequencing (WES) analysis using data from the Mayo
Clinic Bipolar Disorder Biobank (n =1,600 cases) and the Mayo
Clinic Biobank (n 50K controls). In this study, we adopted two
different strategies to explore the rare variants associated
with BD, comparing the outcomes of each approach. With the
first strategy, we used a standard RV analysis approach, which
involved removing a small subset of unrelated individuals
(mostly controls) from our dataset and applying burden and
sequence kernel association tests (SKAT) to identify genes
with RVs that may confer susceptibility to BD. With the second
analysis strategy, we implemented the REGENIE method, which
employs a novel approach to improve power by adjusting
for background genetic signal. The REGENIE method also
incorporates related individuals in the analysis which may also
improve power. We will compare the results obtained from
both analyses, assessing the performance and robustness of
each approach in uncovering genes associated with BD. The
motivation behind this comparison is to explore the potential
advantages and drawbacks of adopting a newer tool in contrast
to a conventional approach. By evaluating the performance and
outcomes of both methods, we seek to assess the feasibility and
potential advancements offered by REGENIE. This comparative
analysis will provide valuable insights into the applicability and
potential benefits of incorporating REGENIE in future genetic
association studies.
30
Exploring Similarities and Differences Between Local
Genetic Correlation Methods
Rupal L. Shah1
, Rebecca Darlay1
, Richard M. Dodds2
, Anand T.N.
Nair3
, Ewan R. Pearson3
, Heather J. Cordell1 on behalf of the
ADMISSION Research Collaborative
1
Population Health Sciences Institute, Faculty of Medical Sciences,
Newcastle University, Newcastle upon Tyne, United Kingdom;
2
Translational and Clinical Research Institute, Faculty of Medical
Sciences, Newcastle University, Newcastle upon Tyne, United
Kingdom; 3
Division of Population Health and Genomics, School of
Medicine, University of Dundee, Dundee, United Kingdom
Genetic correlation analysis provides useful insight into
the shared genetic basis between pairs of traits or conditions
of interest. However, most genome-wide analyses performed
using tools such as LDSC only inform about the degree of
overall genetic similarity and do not identify the specific
genomic regions that give rise to this similarity. Identification of
the key contributing regions could allow them to be prioritized
for investigation of potential shared biological mechanisms.
In recent years, several statistical tools (e.g. rho-HESS,
SUPERGNOVA, and LAVA) have been developed to investigate
local genetic correlations. These tools partition the genome
into multiple segments and provide estimates of the genetic
correlation captured by each individual segment. Using publicly
available European ancestry genome-wide association study
(GWAS) summary statistics as input, local genetic correlations
were estimated using each of these tools for the following
commonly occurring pairs of conditions: Hypertension and
atrial fibrillation and flutter, hypertension and chronic kidney
disease, and hypertension and Type 2 diabetes. Despite each
of the three methods aiming to address the same question,
results were found not to be entirely consistent across tools,
with some identified regions overlapping across tools and
others implicated only by a single tool. The work presented
here highlights the similarities and differences between the
results obtained from these methods and attempts to explore
the potential reasons underlying these differences.
31
Epigenome-wide Associations with Age and Sex and
Asthma
Denise Daley1,2, Dentisa Vasileva1
, Deep Patel1
, Ming Wan1
,
Andrew Sandford1,2, Edmond Chan3
, Allan Becker4
, Catherine
Laprise5
 and Celia M T Greenwood6
1
Centre for Heart Lung Innovation, University of British Columbia
and Saint Paul’s Hospital, Vancouver British Columbia,
Canada; 2
Department of Medicine, Respiratory Division, University
of British Columbia, Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada;  3
BC
Children’s Hospital Research Institute, Faculty of Medicine,
Vancouver, Canada;4 Department of Pediatrics and Child Health,
University of Manitoba, Manitoba, Canada; 5Centre; intersectoriel 
Presentation Abstracts Page 13
en santé durable (CISD) de l’Université du Québec á Chicoutimi,
Saguenay, Canada, Centre intégré universitaire de santé et de
services sociaux (CIUSSS) du Saguenay–Lac-Saint-Jean, Saguenay,
Canada; 6
Lady Davis Institute for Medical Research, Jewish
General Hospital, Montreal, Canada; 7
McGill University: Gerald
Bronfman Department of Oncology, Department of Epidemiology
& Biostatistics, and Department of Human Genetics
Diseases such as asthma, autism and auto-immune
disorders demonstrate age and sex specific prevalence
patterns. Childhood asthmatics are predominately male while
the majority of adult asthmatics are women. Mechanisms for
sex-specific prevalence patterns are unknown.
Associations with age, sex, and asthma were identified using
a targeted methylation sequencing approach that assessed
methylation at ~5.2 million CpG sites in 795 samples from
two studies. The Canadian Asthma Primary Prevention Study
(CAPPS, n=626) is a longitudinal birth cohort recruited during
the 2nd and 3rd trimester of pregnancy and followed to age 15.
The Saguenay–Lac-Saint-Jean study (SLSJ, n=169 samples)
consists of three-generational triads. Associations (p<1x10-8)
with asthma (n=13), age (n=559,870) and sex (cord blood n=562,
venous blood n=1,268, present in both n=385) were identified
using multistage mixed effects regression. Annotation of CpG’s
differentially methylated by sex identified genes associated
with phenotypes that have sex-specific prevalence patterns
such as Alzheimer’s (RAP2CP1, RFPL2), asthma (MED15P3,
PRRT4, PRH1-PRR4), autism (RNF168, DPPA5, GRIN1, GABRA5),
Ehlers-Danlos (PLCH2, HES5, DSE, OLFM1, OBP2B), Sjögren’s
(MED15P5, FOXI2, CCDC177), imprinted regions of chromosome
15 and Klinefelter’s (XXY, RFPL2, DPPA5). These data indicate sex
specific methylation may contribute to Mendelian, imprinted
and complex disorders with sex specific disease prevalence.
32
Integrative Genetic and Exposomic Analysis of Mental
Health Problems in Early Childhood
Hayley A. Sowards, Karanvir Singh, Karmel W. Choi, Jessica K.
Dennis*
1
Department of Medical Genetics, University of British Columbia;
2
Department of Psychiatry, Harvard Medical School/Massachusetts
General Hospital
Genes and environment contribute to the risk of developing
mental health problems, but their relative contribution is
dynamic as individuals age, and few studies have focused on
early childhood. Moreover, until recently, few methods existed
to quantify the collective contribution of many environmental
exposures at once (i.e., the “exposome”), and their interplay with
the genome in population-based samples. In this study, we use
an integrative genetic and exposomic analysis of internalizing
(e.g., depression/anxiety) and externalizing (e.g., aggressive
behavior) traits measured in a cohort of 2,400 Canadian children
at age 5 and 8, participating in the Canadian Healthy Infant
Longitudinal Development (CHILD) study.
Our approach quantifies the proportion of variability in
internalizing and externalizing problem scores explained by
genetic and exposomic factors using a recently developed
linear mixed effect model that extends the principles of genetic
relationship matrices to the exposome. A unique strength of the
CHILD study is the availability of maternal genotype data, which
allows us to additionally quantify the variance explained by the
prenatal exposome (e.g., pregnancy complications, maternal
medication use in pregnancy) while separating out the direct
effect of maternal genotype (i.e., genotype transmitted to
offspring) from the indirect effect of maternal genotype
(i.e., genotype that influences offspring outcomes indirectly
through the prenatal environment, “genetic nurture”).
Results will advance our understanding of how the genome,
exposome, and their interplay contribute to signs of mental
health problems in early childhood, and the linear mixed model
approach is broadly applicable to cohorts and biobanks with
rich exposomic data.
33
APOE-ɛ4 and Coronary Artery Disease: Effect Modification
by Sex and Gender in a Multi-ancestry Sample from the UK
Biobank
Tatiana Dessy*1,2,3,5, Johanna Sandoval1,2, Louis-Philippe Lemieux
Perreault1,2, Marie-Christyne Cyr1,2, Sylvie Provost1,2, Marie-Pierre
Sylvestre1,3,5, Sarah Gagliano Taliun1,4,6, Marie-Pierre Dubé1,2,3,4
1
Montreal Heart Institute, Montréal, Quebec, Canada; 2
Université de
Montréal Beaulieu-Saucier Pharmacogenomics Center, Montréal,
Quebec, Canada; 3
Department of Social and Preventive Medicine,
Université de Montréal, Montréal, Quebec, Canada; 4
Department
of Medicine, Université de Montréal, Quebec, Canada; 5
Centre
de Recherche du Centre Hospitalier de l’Université de Montréal,
Montréal, Quebec, Canada; 6
Department of Neuroscience,
Université de Montréal, Quebec, Canada.
BACKGROUND. Biological and socio-cultural risk factors
contribute to coronary artery disease (CAD) in men and
women. Evidence of an interplay between APOE-ɛ4, sex, and
psychosocial factors relating to sex and gender remains sparse.
We aim to evaluate whether sex and gender independently
modify the effect of APOE-ɛ4 on CAD.
METHODS. We evaluated effect modification in n=364,793
participants from the UK Biobank pan-ancestry dataset (return
#2442) that were without prevalent cardiovascular disease or
neurocognitive impairment. Phased genotypes were used
to derive APOE diplotypes and define APOE-ɛ4 carrier status.
Gender was modeled using a previously constructed literaturebased femininity score (FS) leveraging six psychosocial factors.
We estimated adjusted generalized linear models (GLM) of CAD
since random effects for the ancestry group variable were not
informative in generalized linear mixed models. We estimated
GLM stratified by sex including interaction terms for APOE-ɛ4
and FS. We estimated GLM in the sex-combined sample with
interaction terms for APOE-ɛ4 and sex and adjusted for FS and
covariates.
RESULTS: The incidence of CAD was 8.1%. In males,
FS (p=0.045) and APOE-ɛ4 (p<0.001) were associated with
increased CAD risk (pint=0.554), whereas FS was associated
with increased CAD risk in females (p<0.001), but not APOE-ɛ4
(p=0.20; pint=0.068). Evidence for modification of the effect
of APOE-ɛ4 on CAD by sex when adjusted for FS shifted from
pint=0.091 to pint=0.050.
DISCUSSION: Sex and gender independently contribute
to CAD risk. More analyses are needed to clarify the mechanistic
role of gender on genetic CAD risk in both sexes. 
Page 14 The 2023 Annual Meeting of the International Genetic Epidemiology Society
34
Proteome-wide Mendelian Randomization of Adverse
Outcomes in Human Heart Failure
Marie-Joe Dib1*, Michael Levin1,2, Lei Zhao3
, Ching-Pin Chang3
,
Christina Ebert3
, Dipender Gill4
, Stephen Burgess5,6, David A.
Gordon3
, Thomas P. Cappola1,3, Julio A. Chirinos3
1
Division of Cardiovascular Medicine, Hospital of the University
of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, United States of
America; 2
University of Pennsylvania Perelman School of Medicine,
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, United States of America; 3 BristolMyers Squibb Company, Lawrenceville, New Jersey, United States
of America; 4
Department of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, School
of Public Health, Imperial College London, United Kingdom;
5
MRC Integrative Epidemiology Unit, University of Bristol, Bristol,
United Kingdom; 6 Department of Public Health and Primary Care,
University of Cambridge, Cambridge, United Kingdom
Identifying novel molecular drivers of disease progression
in heart failure (HF) is a high-priority goal that may provide
new therapeutic targets to improve patient outcomes. We
aimed to assess the relationship between plasma proteins and
adverse outcomes in HF and assess the causal role of various
proteins using Mendelian randomization (MR). We measured
~5,000 plasma proteins (SomaScan assay) among 1,964
participants with HF with a reduced left ventricular ejection
fraction enrolled in the Penn HF study (PHFS). We assessed
the observational relationship between plasma proteins and:
1) all-cause death; 2) death or HF-related hospital admission
(DHFA). Proteins significantly associated with outcomes were
the subject of two-sample Mendelian randomization (MR)
and colocalization analyses using blood protein quantitative
trait loci (pQTL) from the deCODE and Fenland studies to test
the putative causal effects of these proteins on HF outcomes.
After correction for multiple comparisons, we found 243 and
126 proteins significantly associated with death and DHFA,
respectively. Mendelian randomization and colocalization
analyses provided converging evidence of potentially causal
effects of six proteins (CCDC126, CD55, CCL14, NEGR1, SVEP1
and ADH7) on DHFA and 11 proteins on death (RSPO4, FCN2,
IGLL1, HPGDS, FGF23, EFEMP1, STC1, ATOX1, FCN2, SVEP1,
ANG) at nominal significance (p < 0.05). Our study implicates
multiple novel proteins in HF and provides preliminary evidence
of a potentially causal association between plasma levels of
17 circulating plasma proteins the risk for adverse outcomes
in human HF. Whether these proteins represent suitable
therapeutic targets should be the focus of future studies.
35
Genetic Connection between Coronary Artery Disease and
Stroke
Kexin Ding1,2, Kun Wang1,2, Xiaoyi Li1,2, Xueying Qin1,2†*, Yiqun
Wu1,2†* 1
Department of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, School of Public
Health, Peking University, Beijing, China; 2
Key Laboratory of
Epidemiology of Major Diseases (Peking University), Ministry of
Education, Beijing, China
†Equal contribution
*Corresponding to: Xueying Qin (xueyingqin@bjmu.edu.cn) and
Yiqun Wu (qywu118@163.com)
Coronary artery disease (CAD) and stroke are highly
complex traits that impose a significant disease burden
globally. Both conditions share a range of metabolic risk factors
and are similarly influenced by systemic inflammation, ischemia
caused by atherosclerosis, and other pathophysiological
processes. Genome-wide association studies (GWAS) have
identified numerous risk loci for CAD and stroke, many of which
display cross-trait associations with metabolic risk factors.
While both CAD and stroke involve abnormal conditions in the
vascular system, it remains unclear to what extent the genetic
architecture underlying coronary and cerebral arteries is shared.
Therefore, this study aimed to examine the genetic intersection
between CAD and stroke. Summary statistics of GWAS in
individuals of European ancestry with the largest sample size
for CAD (n=1,165,690) and all strokes (AS, n=446,696) or all
ischemic strokes (AIS, n=440,328) were analyzed. The genetic
correlations between traits were estimated by LD score
regression, while the overlap polygenic components were
quantified using MiXeR. Pleiotropic genetic loci were then
identified using the conjunctional false discovery rate method,
and the causal variants were prioritized through statistical
colocalization analysis by HyPrColoc. Our findings reveal that
CAD is positively genetically correlated to AS and AIS, with a
genetic correlation of 0.53 and 0.50, respectively. We estimate
that there are around 1.5K, 1.0K, and 1.3K variants that causally
influence CAD, AS, and AIS, respectively. Among these variants,
0.9K are shared between CAD and AS, while 1.0K are shared
between CAD and AIS. We then identify 83 independent loci
(54 novels) having pleiotropic effects on CAD and AS, while
82 loci (59 novels) for CAD and AIS. Of these, six loci exhibit a
posterior probability greater than 0.8 associated with both
CAD and AS, while six loci for CAD and AIS. The identified
regions contain genes such as SH2B3, CASZ1, CDKN2B-AS1,
and GOSR2, suggesting the involvement of the neurotrophic
signaling pathway, cell cycle regulation, cellular senescence,
and transforming growth factor-beta signaling pathway in the
pathogenesis of these diseases. Our study supports the notion
that the established epidemiological link between CAD and
stroke has a genetic underpinning, which sheds light on the
common pathogenesis of cardiovascular and cerebrovascular
diseases.
37
Construction, Evaluation, and AOP Framework-based
Application of the EpPRS as a Genetic Surrogate for
Assessing Environmental Pollutants
Silu Chen1,2, Mulong Du2,3,*, Junyi Xin1,4, Rui Zheng1,2, Zhengdong
Zhang1,2, Meilin Wang1,2
1
Department of Environmental Genomics, Jiangsu Key Laboratory
of Cancer Biomarkers, Prevention and Treatment, Collaborative
Innovation Center for Cancer Personalized Medicine, Nanjing
Medical University, Nanjing, China; 2Department of Genetic
Toxicology, The Key Laboratory of Modern Toxicology of
Ministry of Education, School of Public Health, Nanjing Medical
University, Nanjing, China; 3
Department of Biostatistics, Center
for Global Health, School of Public Health, Nanjing Medical
University, Nanjing, China; 4
Department of Bioinformatics, School
of Biomedical Engineering and Informatics, Nanjing Medical
University, Nanjing, Jiangsu, China.
Presentation Abstracts Page 15
Detection of humans’ internal exposure to environmental
pollutants is cost-intensive, time-consuming, and energyconsuming. Polygenic risk scores (PRSs) have been widely
applied in genetic studies of complex trait or diseases. It is urgent
to construct a genetically relevant environmental surrogate for
pollutant exposure and to explore its utility for disease prediction
and risk assessment. This study enrolled 714 individuals with
complete genomic data and exposomic data on 22 plasmapersistent organic pollutants (POPs). We first conducted 22 POP
genome-wide association studies (GWAS) and constructed the
corresponding environmental pollutant-based PRS (EpPRS) by
clumping and p-value thresholding (C+T), lassosum, and PRSCS methods. The best-fit EpPRS was chosen by its regression R2
.
An adverse outcome pathway (AOP) framework was developed
to assess the effects of contaminants on candidate disease. The
C+T method produced the best-performing EpPRSs for seven
PCBs and four PBDEs. EpPRSs well replicated the correlations of
environmental exposure measurements based on consistent
patterns. The diagnostic performance of Type 2 diabetes
mellitus (T2DM) was improved upon by the combined model
of T2DM-PRS and EpPRS of PCB126/BDE153. Finally, the AKT1-
mediated AOP framework illustrated that PCB126 and BDE153
may increase the risk of T2DM by decreasing AKT1 expression
through the cGMP-PKG pathway and promoting abnormal
glucose homeostasis. EpPRSs can be an equivalent substitute
for assessing pollutant internal exposure. The application of
the EpPRS to disease risk assessment can finely reveal the toxic
pathway and mode of action linking exposure and disease,
which provides a decision basis for the environmental pollutant
control strategy.
38
Relating Gene Co-expression qtls to PRSs via IndividualSpecific Networks
Edoardo Gervasoni1*, Behnam Yousefi2,3,4, Federico Melograna2
,
Benno Schwikowski3
, Iain R. Konigsberg5
, Katerina J. Kechris6
,
Peter J. Castaldi8,9, Michael H. Cho8,10, Kristel Van Steen1,2
1
BIO3 Systems Genetics, GIGA-R, Université de Liège, Liège,
Belgium; 2
BIO3 Systems Medicine, Department of Human
Genetics, KU Leuven, Leuven, Belgium;  3
Computational Systems
Biomedicine, Institut Pasteur, Université Paris Cité, Paris, France; 4
Ecole Doctorale Complexite du Vivant, Sorbonne Université, Paris,
France; 5
Department of Biomedical Informatics, Anschutz Medical
Campus, University of Colorado, Aurora, Colorado; United States
of America; 6 Department of Biostatistics and Informatics, Colorado
School of Public Health, University of Colorado Anschutz Medical
Campus, Aurora, Colorado, United States of America; 8
Channing
Division of Network Medicine, Brigham and Women’s Hospital,
Boston, Massachusetts, United States of America; 9
Division of
General Medicine and Primary Care, Brigham and Women’s
Hospital, Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts, United
States of America; 10Division of Pulmonary and Critical Care
Medicine, Brigham and Women’s Hospital, Harvard Medical
School, Boston, Massachusetts, United States of America 
In this work, we assess the complementary value of
FEV1 polygenic risk score (PRS) and individual-specific gene
expression networks (ISNs - Kuijjer et al. 2019), obtained by
reverse-engineering a gene co-expression network derived
from RNAseq data from COPDgene (www.copdgene.org) with
4,524 genes and 3,679 individuals. Based on subnetworks that
exhibit significant variation across ISNs, we prioritize gene-pairs.
Via the ISNs we constructed, such a gene pair has a realization
(weight) for each individual and thus can be considered as an
outcome in co-eqtl (co-expression qtl) epistasis analysis with
MB-MDR (Van Lishout et al. 2016). The resulting statistical
epistasis networks show multiple hub genes. For instance,
PTPRF for which the predominant function is the regulation
of the actin cytoskeleton; dysfunction of the gene may be
involved in the greater cellular plasticity observed in human
bronchial epithelia in COPD patients. Upregulation of another
hub gene, GMDS-DT/GMDS-AS1, has been shown to stop the
proliferation of lung adenocarcinoma cells and promote cell
apoptosis. One pathway through which this occurs is through
upregulation of IL1β of which levels are statistically significantly
higher in COPD patients compared to controls. In addition, we
demonstrate the clinical utility of our findings by associating
ISN based gene-based co-expressions with PRS: Our strategy
revealed several instances where co-expression – PRS trends
significantly depended on multilocus genotypes.
39
Sex Differences in the Genetic Architecture of Alzheimer’s
Disease Cognitive Endophenotypes
Jaclyn M. Eissman*1,2; Alexandra N. Smith*1
; Skylar Walters1
;
Shubhabrata Mukherjee3
; Michael L. Lee3
; Seo-Eun Choi3
;
Phoebe Scollard3
; Emily H. Trittschuh4,5; Jesse B. Mez6
; William
S. Bush7
; Brian W. Kunkle8
; Adam C. Naj11,12; Katherine A. Gifford1
;
Murat Bilgel28; Amanda B. Kuzma12; The Alzheimer’s Disease
Neuroimaging Initiative (ADNI); Alzheimer’s Disease Genetics
Consortium (ADGC); The Alzheimer’s Disease Sequencing
Project (ADSP); Michael L. Cuccaro8
; Carlos Cruchaga9,10;
Margaret A. Pericak-Vance8
; Lindsay A. Farrer6,13,14; Li-San
Wang12; Gerard D. Schellenberg12; Richard P. Mayeux15,16,17;
Jonathan L. Haines7
; Angela L. Jefferson1
; Walter A. Kukull18; C.
Dirk Keene19; Andrew J. Saykin20,21; Paul M. Thompson22; Eden
R. Martin8
; Marilyn S. Albert23; Sterling C. Johnson24; Corinne D.
Engelman24; Luigi Ferrucci25; David A. Bennett26; Lisa L. Barnes26;
Julie A. Schneider26; Susan M. Resnick28; Reisa A. Sperling27; Paul
K. Crane3
; Timothy J. Hohman1,2; Logan Dumitrescu1,2
*Equally contributed to this work
1
Vanderbilt Memory & Alzheimer’s Center, Vanderbilt University
Medical Center, Nashville, Tennessee, United States of America;
2
Vanderbilt Genetics Institute, Vanderbilt University Medical Center,
Nashville, Tennessee, United States of America; 3
Department of
Medicine, University of Washington, Seattle, Washington, United
States of America; 4
Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral
Sciences, University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle,
Washington, United States of America; 5
VA Puget Sound Health
Care System, GRECC, Seattle, Washington, United States of
America; 6
Department of Neurology, Boston University Chobanian
& Avedisian School of Medicine, Boston, Massachusetts, United
States of America; 7
Cleveland Institute for Computational Biology,
Department of Population and Quantitative Health Sciences,
Case Western Reserve University, Cleveland, Ohio, United States
of America; 8
John P. Hussman Institute for Human Genomics,
University of Miami Miller School of Medicine, Miami, Florida,
United States of America; 9
Department of Psychiatry, Washington
University School of Medicine, St Louis, Missouri, United States of 
Page 16 The 2023 Annual Meeting of the International Genetic Epidemiology Society
America; 10NeuroGenomics and Informatics Center, Washington
University School of Medicine, St. Louis, Missouri, United States
of America; 11Department of Biostatistics, Epidemiology, and
Informatics, University of Pennsylvania Perelman School of
Medicine, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, United States of America;
12Penn Neurodegeneration Genomics Center, Department of
Pathology and Laboratory Medicine, University of Pennsylvania
Perelman School of Medicine, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, United
States of America; 13Department of Biostatistics, Boston University
School of Public Health, Boston, Massachusetts, United States of
America; 14Department of Medicine (Biomedical Genetics), Boston
University Chobanian & Avedisian School of Medicine, Boston, MA,
United States of America; 15Columbia University, New York, New
York, United States of America; 16The Taub Institute for Research
on Alzheimer’s Disease and The Aging Brain, Columbia University,
New York, New York, United States of America; 17The Institute for
Genomic Medicine, Columbia University Medical Center and The
New York Presbyterian Hospital, New York, New York, United States
of America; 18Department of Epidemiology, School of Public Health,
University of Washington, Seattle, Washington, United States of
America; 19Department of Laboratory Medicine and Pathology,
University of Washington, Seattle, Washington, United States of
America; 20Department of Radiology and Imaging Services, Indiana
University School of Medicine, Indianapolis, Indiana, United States
of America; 21Department of Medical and Molecular Genetics,
School of Medicine, Indiana University, Indianapolis, Indiana,
United States of America; 22Keck School of Medicine, University
of Southern California, Los Angeles, California, United States of
America; 23Department of Neurology, Johns Hopkins University
School of Medicine, Baltimore, Maryland, United States of America;
24Alzheimer’s Disease Research Center, University of Wisconsin
School of Medicine and Public Health, Madison, Wisconsin, United
States of America; 25Johns Hopkins University Bloomberg School
of Public Health, Baltimore, Maryland, United States of America;
26Rush Alzheimer’s Disease Center, Rush University Medical
Center, Chicago, Illinois, United States of America; 27Department
of Neurology, Massachusetts General Hospital/Harvard Medical
School, Boston, Massachusetts, United States of America;
28Laboratory of Behavioral Neuroscience National Institute on
Aging National Institutes of Health, Baltimore, Maryland, United
States of America.
Multiple domains of cognition show sex/gender
differences in aging and Alzheimer’s disease (AD). Genetic
studies of cognition in older adults have identified significant
loci, but these studies have not considered sex/gender. We
investigated if genetic contributors to cognition differed by
sex, leveraging harmonized memory, executive functioning,
language, and global cognition scores across nine cohorts of
cognitive aging. For each domain, we conducted sex-stratified
and sex-interaction genome-wide meta-analyses among a
cross-ancestral sample of ~35,000 (mean baseline age=73
years; 57% female; 14% AD cases; average number of visits>4;
88% non-Hispanic White; 12% non-Hispanic Black), covarying
for age and ancestry principal components. Beyond APOE, we
identified three sex-specific loci: HS3ST4 associated with global
cognitive decline among males (rs10852291: βM=-5.29x10-3,
PM=4.73x10-8, βint=6.26x10-3, Pint=2.77x10-6) but not among
females (βF=7.70x10-4, PF=0.35). This locus associated with
fluid intelligence in males in the UK Biobank (βM=-2.30x10-2,
PM=7.49x10-3; βF=1.44x10-3, PF=0.86). CTNNAL1 interacted with
sex on baseline executive functioning (rs112083348: βint=-0.10,
Pint=2.67x10-8; βM=0.05, PM=5.18x10-4; βF=-0.05, PF=4.92x10-5).
This locus associated with an executive functioning-related task
in the UK Biobank (βM=1.63x10-2, PM=6.07x10-3; βF=5.88x10-3,
PF=0.28) and was an eQTL for CTNNAL1 in two AD-vulnerable
brain regions. VRK2 associated with language decline among
females (rs11898834: βF=2.75x10-3, PF=9.99x10-10, βint=2.94x10-3,
Pint=6.93x10-5) but not among males (βM=-7.50x10-5, PM=0.89).
rs11898834 is an eQTL for VRK2 in blood, and VRK2 associated
sex-specifically with developmental stuttering in 23&Me data.
Together, our results support a sex-specific component to the
genetic architecture of cognition. We look forward next to
incorporating bulk and single-cell transcriptomics into our sexaware exploration of cognition.
40
Coronary Heart Disease and Type 2 Diabetes Metabolomic
Signatures in a Middle Eastern Cohort
Mohamed Elshrif1*, Keivin Isufaj1
, Ayman El-Menyar2,3, Khalid
Kunji1
, Ehsan Ullah1
, Reem Elsousy4
, Haira R. B. Mokhtar5
,
Eiman Ahmad5
, Maryam Al-Nesf6
, Alka Beotra5
, Mohammed AlMaadheed5
, Vidya Mohamed-Ali5
, Mohamad Saad1
, and Jassim
Al Suwaidi4
1
Qatar Computing Research Institute, Hamad Bin Khalifa
University, Qatar; 2
Clinical Research, Trauma & Vascular Surgery,
Hamad Medical Corporation, Qatar; 3
Department of Clinical
Medicine, Weill Cornell Medical College, Qatar; 4
Department of
Cardiology, Heart Hospital, Hamad Medical Corporation, Qatar;
5
Anti-doping Lab Qatar, Qatar; 6 Department of Internal Medicine,
Allergy and Immunology, Hamad Medical Corporation, Qatar
*Presenting author
Background: The growing field of metabolomics has
opened new venues for identifying biomarkers of Type 2
diabetes (T2D) and predicting its consequences such as
coronary heart disease (CHD). Middle Eastern populations,
despite their large size, are underrepresented in omics research.
Methods: In this study, we used a total of 641 metabolites
from a large cohort of 3,679 Qatari adults from the Qatar
Biobank (QBB; 272 T2D and 2438 non-T2D individuals) and
Qatar Cardiovascular Biorepository (QCBio; all CHD patients;
488 T2D and 481 non-T2D individuals). Univariate analysis
was performed to identify metabolites associated with T2D,
in the absence or presence of CHD. Multivariate analysis,
machine learning (ML) models, and metabolite risk scores
were developed to assess the predictive power of the different
combination of T2D and CHD.
Results: Many metabolites were significantly associated
with T2D in both QBB and QCBio cohorts. Among these, we
observed, for example, 1,5-anhydroglucitol (P=1.33×10−68
in QBB vs 9.82×10−33 in QCBio). Other metabolites were
significantly associated with T2D only in one cohort. ML models
performed well to predict all T2D and CHD combinations with
accuracy reaching 80%. The MRS developed in QCBio and
tested in QBB while adjusting for HbA1C yielded an Odds Ratio
of 21.18 for the top quintile vs. the remaining quintiles.
Conclusions: Metabolomics profiling has the potential
for early detection of metabolic alterations that precede
clinical symptoms of T2D and CHD in the presence of T2D. This 
Presentation Abstracts Page 17
early detection potential allows for timely interventions and
improved management strategies for both T2D and CHD.
41
X Chromosome Association Study of Asthma
Aida Eslami1,2*, Mozart Nerva Deneus1
, Zhonglin Li1
, Nathalie
Gaudreault1
, Sébastien Thériault1,3, Yohan Bossé1,4
1
Institut Universitaire de Cardiologie et de Pneumologie de
Québec, Université Laval, Quebec, Quebec, Canada; 2
Department
of Social and Preventive Medicine, Laval University, Quebec,
Quebec, Canada; 3
Department of Molecular Biology, Medical
Biochemistry and Pathology, Laval University, Quebec, Quebec,
Canada; 4
Department of Molecular Medicine, Laval University,
Quebec, Quebec, Canada
Context: Asthma is a common respiratory disease with both
genetic and environmental risk factors. Heritability estimates
for asthma range from 0.55 to 0.90. Numerous genome-wide
association studies (GWASs) have been completed and have
identified several single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs)
associated with asthma. However, because of the difficulty in
analyzing the X chromosome, these published asthma GWASs
are mostly focused on autosomal variants (chromosomes 1-22,
non-sex chromosomes) and ignore the sex chromosomes. The
prevalence and course of asthma is known to be sex-specific.
It is thus important to take into account the effect of the X
chromosome in genetic studies.
Aim: Our research aims to perform X chromosome
association in the Quebec City Case-Control Asthma Cohort
(QCCCAC) which consists of 1,618  French-Canadian subjects
(1,089 asthmatics [660 women and 429 men] and 519 healthy
controls [330 women and 199 men]).
Methodology: Genotyping performed using the Illumina
Global Screening Array BeadChip. After filtering and imputation
(TOPMed reference panel ,we tested more than one million
variants in chromosome X for association analysis using SAIGE
(Scalable and Accurate Implementation of Generalized mixed
model) adjusting for age, sex, and the first 20 ancestry-based
principal components.
Results: Five independent variants were identified at a
suggestive association threshold of p value < 1 × 10-5 in the X
chromosome analysis. The most significant variant is located
in the NHS gene. The allele frequencies in asthma cases and
controls were 0.017 and 0.055, respectively.
Conclusion: Performing genetic association analysis on the
X chromosome is a valuable tool for researchers to gain a better
understanding of complex diseases. We will compare several
statistical methods to study the association in chromosome X.
42
Genomics Policy Analysis in Precision Medicine with Health
Disparity Lens
Kelly R. Estilette*
Department of Social, Behavioral, and Population Sciences, Tulane
University School of Public Health and Tropical Medicine, New
Orleans, Louisiana, United States of America
American Public Health Association, Genomics Forum
Precision medicine is a burgeoning field that will continue
to change the very meaning of disease prediction, prevention,
detection, and treatment through the use of genomics data.
The benefits of this enhanced state of health should be
experienced equitably by all. Analyzing the current state of
policy within the field of precision medicine will allow for the
development of inclusive policy and the design of systems
that promote equity. The eightfold Bardach policy analysis
method is used to consider current policy, survey current areas
of opportunity, and generate recommendations for exploration
meant to increase equity and reduce disparities within the field
of precision medicine.
43
Estimation of Prevalence and Carrier Frequency of
Wilson’s Disease in Thai Population Using Whole-genome
Population Data Set
Paravee Own-eium1,2, Sommon Klumsathian1
, Donniphat
Dejsuphong2
, Bhoom Suktitipat3
, Jakris Eu-ahsunthornwattana4*
1
Center for Medical Genomics, Faculty of Medicine Ramathibodi
Hospital, Mahidol University, Bangkok, Thailand, 2
Program
in Translational Medicine, Faculty of Medicine Ramathibodi
Hospital, Mahidol University, Bangkok, Thailand, 3
Department
of Biochemistry, Faculty of Medicine Siriraj Hospital, Mahidol
University, Bangkok, Thailand, 4
Department of Community
Medicine, Faculty of Medicine Ramathibodi Hospital, Mahidol
University, Bangkok, Thailand
Wilson’s disease (WD) is a rare autosomal recessive disease
caused by mutations in the gene ATP7B resulting in copper
accumulation in major organs leading to chronic hepatic,
neurological, and psychological symptoms. Its prevalence
varies among different populations. To estimate the prevalence
and carrier frequency of WD in the Thai population, we use
the SNP array data (Asian Screening Array: ASA; Illumina
Corp, CA) of 6,291 individuals from the Genomics Thailand
SNP Array project and whole genome sequencing (WGS) data
from the Thai 500 WGS cohort and the 1000 Genomes Project.
An imputed data set of SNPs within the gene ATP7B was also
created using the SNP Array and WGS data. SNP data from
these sources were compared with ClinVar and Wilson Disease
Mutation Database. Disease variants were identified using either
“relaxed” definition (variants classified as pathogenic or likely
pathogenic in any databases) or “strict” definition (classified
as such in both databases). Carrier frequency and disease
prevalence were then estimated assuming Hardy-Weinberg
Equilibrium. The WD carrier frequency and prevalence in Thai
population was estimated to be between 1/24 to 1/62 and
1/2,125 to 1/14,992 using relaxed definition, or 1/78 to 1/92
and 1/24,128 to 1/33,251 using strict definition. These are in
line with the previous epidemiological studies, particularly in
East Asians. With more genome-wide data becoming available
at lower cost, a similar method could be useful for estimating
the prevalence and screening for autosomal recessive diseases
in the population.
Page 18 The 2023 Annual Meeting of the International Genetic Epidemiology Society
44
Direct and INdirect Effects Analysis of Genetic lOci (DINGO):
Increasing the Power of Locus Discovery in GWAS MetaAnalyses of Perinatal Phenotypes
Liang-Dar Hwang1
, Gabriel Cuellar-Partida2
, Loic Yengo1
, Jian
Zeng1
, Robin N. Beaumont3
, Rachel M. Freathy3,4, Gunn-Helen
Moen1,5,6,7,8, Nicole M. Warrington1,6,8, David M. Evans1,4,8
1
Institute for Molecular Bioscience, The University of Queensland,
Brisbane, Australia; 2
Gilead Sciences, Inc, Forest City, California,
United States of America; 3
Department of Clinical and Biomedical
Sciences, Faculty of Health and Life Sciences, University of
Exeter, Exeter, United Kingdom; 4
MRC Integrative Epidemiology
Unit, University of Bristol, Bristol, United Kingdom; 5
Institute of
Clinical Medicine, Faculty of Medicine, University of Oslo, Oslo,
Norway; 6
Department of Public Health and Nursing, K.G. Jebsen
Center for Genetic Epidemiology, NTNU, Norwegian University of
Science and Technology, Trondheim, Norway; 7
Population Health
Science, Bristol Medical School, University of Bristol, Bristol, United
Kingdom; 8
The Frazer Institute, The University of Queensland,
Woolloongabba, QLD, Australia
Perinatal traits are influenced by genetic variants from
both fetal and maternal genomes. Genome-wide association
studies (GWAS) of these phenotypes have typically involved
separate fetal and maternal scans, however, this approach may
be inefficient as it does not utilize the information shared across
the individual GWAS. Here we investigate the performance of
three strategies to detect loci in maternal and fetal GWAS of the
same trait: 1)the traditional strategy of analyzing maternal and
fetal GWAS separately; 2) a novel two degree of freedom test
which combines information from maternal and fetal GWAS;
and 3) a one degree of freedom test where signals from maternal
and fetal GWAS are meta-analyzed together conditional on
the estimated sample overlap. We demonstrate through a
combination of analytical formulae and data simulation that
the optimal strategy depends on the extent of sample overlap/
relatedness between the maternal and fetal GWAS, whether
loci jointly exhibit fetal and maternal effects, and if so, whether
these effects are directionally concordant. We apply our
methods to summary results statistics from a recent GWAS of
birth weight from deCODE, UK Biobank and the Early Growth
Genetics (EGG) consortium identifying >60 novel loci for the
trait. We implement our methods in the online DINGO (Direct
and INdirect effects analysis of Genetic lOci) software package,
which allows users to perform one and/or two degrees of
freedom tests easily and computationally efficiently across the
genome.
45
Dimensionality Reduction with Network Regularization in
Single-cell Expression Analysis
Huaying Fang1
, Weilai Chi2
, Yuedong Zhou2
1
Academy of Multidisciplinary Studies, Capital Normal University,
Beijing, China; 2
School of Mathematical Sciences, Capital Normal
University, Beijing, China
 Single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) technology can
measure gene expression abundance in single cells. However,
there are two challenges for analyzing scRNA-seq data owing
to technical limitations and expense budgets. One challenge
is the dropout problem that results in zero read counts for
many genes in an individual cell; the other challenge is that the
number of genes is often much larger than the sample size. In
this talk, we will introduce a novel method for simultaneously
imputing zeros and reducing data dimensionality for analyzing
scRNA-seq data. The proposed method integrates the prior
gene-gene interaction network with the observed scRNA-seq
data. Using both simulated data and gene expression profiles
from real scRNA-seq experiments, we show that the proposed
method outperforms existing methods for assisting clustering
cells in most cases.
46
Assessing the Causal Effect of SARS-CoV-2 Infection and
COVID-19 Severity on Complement System Activation
using Mendelian Randomization
Luisa Foco1
, Eva König1
, Reinhard Würzner2
, Florian Kronenberg3
,
Peter P Pramstaller1
, Christian Fuchsberger1
, Cristian Pattaro1
,
Fabiola del Greco M1
1
Institute for Biomedicine (affiliated to the University of Lübeck),
Eurac Research, Bolzano, Italy; 2
Institute of Hygiene & Medical
Microbiology, Department of Hygiene, Microbiology and Public
Health, Medical University of Innsbruck, Schöpfstr, Innsbruck,
Austria; 3
Institute of Genetic Epidemiology, Medical University of
Innsbruck, Schöpfstr, Innsbruck, Austria
The complement system (CS) is part of the innate immune
system comprising three independently triggering pathways:
the classical (CP), alternative (AP) and lectin (LP) pathways. CS
has gained popularity in COVID-19 times, appearing from the
beginning of the pandemics a putative key player involved in
susceptibility to infection and disease severity. However, the
role of CS in COVID-19 has never been studied in the general
population using a Mendelian randomization (MR) approach.
We used a two-sample MR to test whether the activation
of CP, AP, LP can be caused by 1) SARS-CoV-2 infection or 2)
COVID-19 severity. We selected SNPs as instrumental variables
(IV) leveraging results of the COVID-19 Host Genetics Initiative
genome-wide association study (GWAS) release 7 (2021) in
European ancestry individuals. As exposures, we selected the
C2 “Reported SARS-CoV-2 infection vs. population controls”,
representing the susceptibility to infection, and the B1
“Hospitalized covid vs. not hospitalized covid,” representing
disease severity. As outcomes, we retrieved summary statistics
from a GWAS of CP, LP and AP activation conducted on the
Cooperative Health Research in South Tyrol (CHRIS) study.
CS activation was measured using Wieslab assay on n=4,990.
Genetic data were imputed against TOPMed and analyzed with
Regenie v3.2.1. We conducted MR applying Inverse-Variance
Weighted Fixed Effect (IVW-FE) analysis and standard methods
robust against pleiotropy, implemented in the Mendelian
randomization R package.
We identified a causal effect of SARS-CoV-2 infection
on LP activation level (p value=4.51×10-9), with evidence of
heterogeneity (I2
=87.4%, Q test p value=9.77×10-25) driven by
an IV in the ABO gene, suggesting the presence of pleiotropy.
Causal effect estimates obtained with robust methods were
direction consistent with the IVW-FE estimate: a Rucker statistic
of 192.54 indicated the MR Egger to be more appropriate than
the IVW-FE (MR Egger p value=0.044). 
Presentation Abstracts Page 19
COVID-19 severity was causally associated with lower
activation of CP (p value=0.029). No evidence of causal effects
was observed on AP for both C2 and B1.
Our findings suggest a role of CP activation in disease
severity. Evidence of causal effect of infection on LP activation
was not fully supported due to pleiotropy. This conclusion
is in contrast with recent evidence showing that MBL2,
the key effector of LP, specifically interacts with the SARSCoV-2 spike protein, thus activating LP. This inconsistency
raises methodological questions regarding MR assumptions,
particularly on the assumption of absence of pleiotropy,
highlighting the risk of discarding true causal effects.
47
Differential Gene Expression Analysis Reveals Genes
Underlying the Transition to T2D in Hispanic/Latino
Individuals
E. Frankel1
, W. Zhu1
, H-H. Chen1
, P. Sharma2
, L.E. Petty1
, R.
Roshani1
, H.M. Highland2
, E.R. Gamazon4
, J. McCormick6
, S.
Fisher-Hoch6
, K.E. North5
, J.E. Below1
1
Vanderbilt University, Nashville, TN; 2
University of North Carolina
Chapel Hill, Chapel Hill, North Carolina, United States of America;
4
VUMC Clare Hall University of Cambridge, Nashville, Tennessee,
United States of America; 5
University North Carolina, Wake Forest,
North Carolina, United States of America; 6
The University of Texas,
Houston, Texas, United States of America
Despite an increased prevalence of Type 2 diabetes
(T2D) relative to non-Hispanic Europeans, Hispanic/Latino
populations are often underrepresented in research studies of
T2D. In this study, we sought to measure significant changes in
gene expression during the transition to T2D and in quantitative
measures such as longitudinal fasting blood glucose (FBG) and
glycated hemoglobin (HbA1c) levels regardless of T2D status.
We utilized longitudinal RNA-sequencing data from 1,150
timepoints measured in 575 participants (142 incident cases)
from the Cameron County Hispanic Cohort to profile the
transition to incident T2D. Incident T2D was characterized
using the ADA 2010 criteria, and exclusions were defined as
individuals taking diabetes medication at either timepoint.
We utilized joint mixed-effect regression models for repeated
measures to compare changes in gene expression over time
using DESeq2 normalized RNA expression for each individual at
each time point as the outcome variable. We developed three
longitudinal models of incident T2D, FBG, and HbA1c levels.
Each model was adjusted for sex, age, smoking status, body
mass index (BMI), and probabilistic estimation of expression
residual factors. We also performed an analysis removing BMI
as a covariate for incident T2D to capture genes associated with
BMI that may contribute to the development of T2D.
Our preliminary longitudinal analyses of incident T2D with
and without BMI, FBG, and HbA1c levels identified 3, 9, 50,
and 398 significant genes, respectively. Overall, our analyses
characterized transcriptomic changes related to incident T2D
and longitudinal FBG and HbA1c levels in an understudied
population with a high disease burden.
48
The Sex-specific Genetic Architecture of Childhood Asthma
Amelie Fritz,1,2 Anders U. Eliasen, PhD,2
 Kasper Rasmussen,2
Casper Emil Tingskov, PhD,2
 Klaus Bønnelykke, MD, PhD2
,
Anders G. Pedersen, PhD1
1
Department of Health Technology, Section for Bioinformatics,
Technical University of Denmark, Kongens Lyngby,Denmark;
2
COPSAC, Copenhagen Prospective Studies on Asthma in
Childhood, Copenhagen University Hospital, Herlev-Gentofte,
Denmark
Childhood asthma is the most common reason for
hospitalization in early childhood. From epidemiological
studies, it is evident that the prevalence is higher in boys than
girls. After puberty, it is more prominent in women than men.
The heritability of childhood asthma is estimated to be between
60 and 90%. This suggests that the genetic components driving
the development of childhood asthma have a sex-specific
effect. Yet, most association studies do not consider gender in
their analysis.
In this project, a Bayesian logistic regression model with a
variant-sex interaction term was developed in RStan to identify
single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) that have a sexspecific effect on childhood asthma. Discovery studies were
conducted in a dataset of 1,189 children with severe asthma
(2-6 hospitalizations) from Copenhagen Prospective Studies
on Asthma in Childhood (COPSAC) and 5,094 non-asthmatic
controls. 77 variants have a posterior probability of interaction
higher than 95% after removing SNPs in linkage disequilibrium
(LD). A subset of individuals with severe asthma (six or
more hospitalizations, 372 individuals) suggests 26 variants
with a posterior probability higher than 95% of having a sex
interaction. Replication was conducted in two independent
data sets.
Variants are found to be part of the genes IL1R1 and
CLEC16A, known for being associated with asthma previously,
and four of the top nine interacting SNPs are expressed in lung
tissue. 
Further, a sex-stratified analysis of main effects confirms
the sex-specific effects in both data sets. 
Clinical associations with rs1009360 on chromosome 2
point to an association with sex-specific testosterone levels
and their effect on disease in men and women which could
influence the production of  immunoglobulin E (IgE) differently
in both genders. IgE is known to be involved in the outbreak of
asthma. Tissue expression analysis shows expression in testis,
ovaries, and uterus.
One variant can be replicated UK Biobank (5,581 cases and
88,094 controls). Further replication is planned in the iPSCYH
data set. 
Sex-specific eQTL analysis of nasal gene expression of
another childhood asthma cohort study will further investigate
sex-specific effects.
Page 20 The 2023 Annual Meeting of the International Genetic Epidemiology Society
49
Two-sample Mendelian Randomization Study of Circulating
Metabolites and Prostate Cancer Risk in Hispanic
Populations
Harriett Fuller
Public Health Sciences Division, Fred Hutchinson Cancer Center,
Washington, United States of America
While prostate cancer (PCa) is highly heritable, the
mechanisms underlying PCa risk are not well understood,
particularly in underserved populations. Here, we conducted
two-sample Mendelian randomization (MR) to assess whether
serum metabolites are causally associated with PCa risk in
Hispanic/Latino men.
MR was performed using GWAS summary statistics for
711 metabolites from 3,166 Hispanic Community Health
Study/ Study of Latinos participants and PCa GWAS summary
statistics for 3,931 cases and 26,405 controls from Hispanic
populations in PRACTICAL. SNPs associated at the genomewide significance level (p<5x10-8) were included and pruned by
linkage disequilibrium (R2
=0.2).
In total, 22 metabolites were significantly associated with
PCa risk, including three amino acids, one carbohydrate, and 18
lipids, which included four polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFAs).
All PUFAs were associated with 14-19% reduced odds of PCa: n3
DPA (22:5n-3) (OR=0.81, 95% CI=0.73–0.90, p value=1.7x10-4),
n6 DPA (22:5n-6) (OR=0.86, 95% CI=0.78–0.95, p value =2.2x10-
3
), EPA (20:5n-3) (OR=0.81, 95% CI=0.77–0.85, p value =2.8x10-
15), and arachidonate (20:4n-6) (OR=0.85, 95% CI=0.82–0.88,
p value =3.3x10-20). The most significant associations (p value
≤3.9x10-40) observed were phosphatidylcholines 1-stearoyl-2-
arachidonoyl-GPC (18:0/20:4) and 1-palmitoyl-2-arachidonoylGPC (16:0/20:4n-6), both of which reduced PCa odds by ~15%.
Results were largely robust to sensitivity analyses.
This study provides evidence of causal associations
between a range of metabolites and PCa risk in individuals of
Hispanic ethnicity. Work is ongoing to replicate these findings
in individuals of European and African ancestry to further assess
the potential for metabolites to serve as PCa biomarkers.
50
Phenome-wide, Metabolomic and Proteomic Association
Scan of SHROOM3 Haplotypes Based on Imputed Exonic
Variants
Dariush Ghasemi-Semeskandeh1,2*, Eva König1
, Luisa Foco1
,
Nikola Dordevic1
, Martin Gögele1
, Johannes Rainer1
, Markus
Ralser3
, Dorien J.M. Peters2
, Peter P. Pramstaller1
, Cristian
Pattaro1
1
Institute for Biomedicine (affiliated to the University of Lübeck),
Eurac Research, Bolzano, Italy; 2
Department of Human Genetics,
Leiden University Medical Center, Leiden, The Netherlands;
3
Institute of Biochemistry, Charité - Universitätsmedizin Berlin,
Berlin, Germany
 SHROOM3 encodes an actin-binding protein involved in cell
shaping. Genome-wide association studies (GWAS) identified
common variants at SHROOM3 associated with chronic kidney
disease, creatinine-based estimated glomerular filtration
rate (eGFRcrea), and serum magnesium (Mg). To understand
underlying physiological mechanisms of SHROOM3, we
conducted a phenome-wide, metabolomic, and proteomic
analysis of SHROOM3 haplotypes in the Cooperative Health
Research in South Tyrol (CHRIS) study.
 We performed genotype imputation of the whole cohort
of 13,389 participants based on whole-exome sequencing data
from 3,840 of the sample. We reconstructed haplotypes of 146
functional variants in FAM47E, STBD1, CCDC158, and SHROOM3,
bounded by the recombination hotspots. The analysis
encompassed 74 serum, urine, and anthropometric traits, 172
serum metabolites, and 148 plasma proteins concentrations on
3,423 individuals. We fitted linear models on the inverse normal
transformation of each trait, adjusted for age, sex, the first 10
genetic principal components, and expectation-maximizationbased haplotype frequencies.
We identified 11 haplotypes (H1 to H11; frequency from
24.36% to 2.03%). H8 (frequency 2.67%) was associated
with eGFRcrea (P=2.7e-4), the urinary albumin-to-creatinine
ratio (p=3.3e-3) and multiple phosphatidylcholines. H6
(11.61%) was associated with serum creatinine and several
carnitines. H4 (2.81%) was associated with Mg (P=6.7e-4),
eGFRcrea and basophils. H10 (2.32%) was associated with Mg,
glutamine, putrescine, and afamin. H3 (2.32%) and H9 (3.99%)
were associated with thyroid-related traits, carnitines, and
immunoglobulins.
 Our multiomic, haplotype association analysis highlighted
strong pleiotropy at SHROOM3, associated with kidney function
and other traits. Identification of haplotypes jointly associated
with complex traits, metabolites, and proteins highlights
molecular pathways warranting further investigations.
51
Exploring Fine-Mapping Using “SuSiE” on Simulated and
Real Data
Aida Gjoka, Heather J. Cordell
Population Health Sciences Institute, Faculty of Medical Sciences,
Newcastle University, Newcastle upon Tyne, United Kingdom
The main goal of fine-mapping is the identification of
relevant genetic variants that affect some trait of interest,
usually the presence of a disease. Fine-mapping methods
are often challenging to apply because of the presence of LD
(linkage disequilibrium), that is, regions of DNA where the
variants interrogated have a high correlation structure. From
the statistical point of view, fine-mapping can be seen as a
variable selection problem.
Many statistical techniques are available to address this
issue. In particular, we use the Sum of Single Effects (SuSiE)
model for selecting variables that causally affect some trait
of interest. This approach provides us with “credible sets”,
i.e. groups of variables that appear to be correlated with the
response variable. This allows us to appropriately acknowledge
more uncertainty when selecting the causal effects for the trait.
We focus on using “SuSiE-RSS”, which fits the SuSiE model
to summary statistics, such as single-SNP z-scores, with the
covariance structure estimated either internally (from the same
data set used to generate the summary statistics) or else from
a reference panel. We apply the method to both simulated and
real data. For data simulation we use the HAPGEN2 software.
We study the performance of SuSiE-RSS by considering metrics
such as power and false discovery rate. For the application to real
data, we use summary statistics from a GWAS of autoimmune 
Presentation Abstracts Page 21
liver disease, Primary Biliary Cholangitis (PBC), derived from
meta-analysis of five cohorts of European ancestry.
52
Cross-ancestry GWAS Meta-analysis of Keloids Discovers
Novel Susceptibility Loci in Diverse Populations
Catherine A. Greene1,2, Gabrielle Hampton1
, Hannah M. Seagle1
,
Yuan Luo3
, Gail P. Jarvik4
, Bahram Namjou-Khales5
, Atlas
Khan6
, Todd L. Edwards7
, Digna R. Velez Edwards1,8,9, Jacklyn N.
Hellwege1,10,11
1
Vanderbilt Genetics Institute, Vanderbilt University Medical
Center, Nashville, Tennessee, United States of America;
2
Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Vanderbilt University
Medical Center, Nashville, Tennessee, United States of America;
3
Department of Preventive Medicine (Health and Biomedical
Informatics), Northwestern University Feinberg School of Medicine,
Chicago, Illinois, United States of America; 4
Departments of
Medicine (Medical Genetics) and Genome Sciences, University of
Washington Medical Center, Seattle, WA, United States of America;
5
Center for Autoimmune Genomics and Etiology, Cincinnati
Children’s Hospital Medical Center (CCHMC), Cincinnati, Ohio,
United States of America; 6
Division of Nephrology, Dept of
Medicine, Vagelos College of Physicians & Surgeons, Columbia
University, New York, New York, United States of America;
7
Division of Epidemiology, Department of Medicine, Vanderbilt
Genetics Institute, Vanderbilt University Medical Center, Nashville,
Tennessee, United States of America; 8
Division of Quantitative
Sciences, Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Vanderbilt
University Medical Center, Nashville, Tennessee, United States
of America; 9
Department of Biomedical Informatics, Vanderbilt
University Medical Center, Nashville, Tennessee, United States of
America; 10Division of Genetic Medicine, Department of Medicine,
Vanderbilt University Medical Center, United States of America;
11Vanderbilt Epidemiology Center, Vanderbilt University Medical
Center, United States of America
Keloids are benign fibroproliferative growths that form
after injury to the skin and grow beyond the original wound
boundaries. They can result in pain and disfigurement.
Prevalence estimates vary from less than 0.1% in Europeanancestry populations to 16% in some African-ancestry
populations. Most genetic research has been limited to
European and East Asian populations despite African-ancestry
populations having a 20-fold increased risk for keloids. We have
performed a large cross-ancestry genome-wide association
study (GWAS) meta-analysis of keloids, incorporating data from
1,600,846 individuals (7,837 cases and 1,593,009 controls). We
detected 142 novel loci in the cross-ancestry meta-analysis,
which included seven replicated variants and 1,233 novel
variants. The most significant cross-ancestry result (p= 1.65 x
10-79) was at a variant (rs10863683) located downstream of
LINC01705. LINC01705 was previously associated with keloids
and implicated as a regulatory factor underlying tumorigenesis.
Additionally, analysis of genetically-predicted gene expression
with S-PrediXcan identified a significant association between
decreased risk of keloids and increased expression of LINC01705
in fibroblasts (P = 7.62 x 10-21), which play an important role in
wound healing. Other results include associations with NEDD4
and LSP1 in fibroblasts, as well as PHLDA3 in sun-exposed
skin (p = 7.94 x 10-11, 5.96 x 10-8, and 3.81 x 10-14, respectively).
Keloid SNP-based heritability estimates are 6%, 21%, and 34%
for Europeans, East Asians, and Africans, respectively. These
results, along with ancestry-specific results, support a potential
adaptive origin for keloid disparities and significantly increase
the yield of discoveries from keloid genetic association studies.
53
Accounting for Genetic Regulation Alters Pregnancy
Exposure-associated Differential Gene Expression Detected
in Umbilical Cord Blood
Luke P. Grosvenor1
, Kelly Benke1
, Janine M. Lasalle2
, Rebecca J.
Schmidt3
, Nilanjin Chatterjee4
, Christine Ladd-Acosta5
, Heather
E. Volk1
, M. Daniele Fallin1,6
1
Department of Mental Health, Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School
of Public Health, Baltimore, Maryland, United States of America;
2
Department of Medical Microbiology and Immunology, Perinatal
Origins of Disparities Center, MIND Institute, Genome Center,
Environmental Health Sciences Center, University of California
Davis, Davis, California, United States of America; 3
Department of
Public Health Sciences and the MIND Institute, School of Medicine,
University of California Davis, Davis, California, United States of
America; 4
Department of Biostatistics, Johns Hopkins Bloomberg
School of Public Health, Baltimore, Maryland, United States of
America; 5
Department of Epidemiology, Johns Hopkins Bloomberg
School of Public Health, Baltimore, Maryland, United States of
America; 6
Emory School of Public Health, Atlanta, Georgia, United
States of America
Detection of transcriptional regulation by exposures may
be aided by including information about strength of genetic
control. We calculated genetically regulated gene expression
(GReX) to capture genetic contribution to assayed expression
and included this in models associating assayed expression
with maternal gestational diabetes mellitus (GDM). Data used
were from the Markers of Autism Risk in Babies-Learning Early
Signs (MARBLES) pregnancy cohort, which enrolls infants
with a family history of autism spectrum disorder (ASD), for
133 mothers (n = 27 with GDM) and their children (n= 69
typically developing, 29 with ASD, and 35 other developmental
delay). We measured transcript levels in RNA extracted from
cord blood and calculated GReX from child genotypes using
FUSION and reference transcriptome data from the GenotypeTissue Expression project. The final expression set consisted
of 6,067 genes. Using linear regression models adjusted for
neurodevelopmental diagnosis and surrogate variables, 30
genes were associated with GDM (log2(fold change) > 0.10, p
value < 0.01). After including adjustment for GReX, 19 genes
remained statistically significant, and ten were newly detected.
Genes with the greatest reduction in log2(fold change) included
LGALS2 and CCR3, each implicated in immune response.
On average, 1,446 genes with strong associations between
GReX and assayed expression (bGReX > 0.10 and p value <
0.01) showed greater reductions in fold change with GDM
after adjustment (mean difference in log2(fold change) =
20% for strong gene set, 1% for weak). Our findings highlight
the potential utility of incorporating GReX to evaluate
transcriptional variation associated with exposures.
Page 22 The 2023 Annual Meeting of the International Genetic Epidemiology Society
54
Rare Variant Analysis in Small Samples: Improving Power
Through Coupling Rare Variant Burden Analysis with Gene
Set Enrichment
Sarah E. Guagliardo*1, Paul C. Dinh2
, Xindi Zhang3
, Matthew R.
Trendowski3
, Swetha Nakshatri 3, Robert D. Frisina4
, Regeneron
Genetics Center, Lois B. Travis2
, Nancy J. Cox1
, Megan M. Shuey1
1
Vanderbilt Genetics Institute, Vanderbilt University Medical
Center, Nashville, Tennessee, United States of America; 2
Division
of Medical Oncology, Indiana University, Indianapolis, Indiana,
United States of America; 3
Department of Medicine, University of
Chicago, Chicago, Illinois, United States of America; 4
Departments
of Medical Engineering and Communication Sciences and
Disorders, Global Center for Hearing and Speech Research,
University of South Florida, Tampa, Florida, United States of
America
With the increasing affordability of whole genome
sequencing, the ability to incorporate rare variant methodology
in human disease studies is crucial. However, these approaches
are often limited by power and sample sizes required to identify
meaningful results. Using extensive clinical and audiometric
data in The Platinum Study, we demonstrate how coupling rare
variant burden analyses to gene set enrichment approaches
(GSEA) can improve our understanding of cisplatin-associated
HL, tinnitus (TINN), and peripheral neuropathy (PN), all of which
can severely impact quality of life.
Testicular cancer survivors of genetically-determined
European ancestry (n=1,669) underwent high-throughput
whole exome sequencing. After QC filters, 1,663 samples
remained. Burden testing used aggregation of various types of
rare variants (predicted loss of function, missense, deleterious
missense, validated deleterious missense) at different minor
allele frequencies (< 0.1, 0.5, 0.01, singleton) for a total of 16
burden masks. Prespecified gene sets for Mendelian forms
of HL and PN were curated from various resources, and the
GWAS Catalog was used for polygenic TINN, HL, and PN gene
sets. GSEA used 100,000 permutations of identically-sized
randomly-pulled gene sets. Significant enrichment of TINN and
HL polygenic sets existed (p<0.02 and p<0.001, respectively),
but not for polygenic PN.
Our results demonstrate that this approach may improve
power and interpretability of rare variant genetic analyses for
clinical studies. Importantly, rare variant risk of both cisplatinassociated HL and TINN appear to be associated with the
polygenic forms of HL and TINN, not Mendelian forms.
55
Discovery of Genetic Factors for Atypical AntipsychoticInduced BMI Change: Obesity Related to Antipsychotic
Liability & Exposure (ORAcLE) Consortium
Shreyash Gupta1
, Geetha Chittoor1
, Navya Shilpa Josyula1
,
Simon Lee2
, Michael Preuss2
, Rebecca Birnbaum3,4, ORAcLE
Consortium, Ginger Nicol5
, Adam E. Locke6
, Anne E. Justice1
1
Department of Population Health Sciences, Geisinger, Danville,
Pennsylvania, United States of America; 2
The Charles Bronfman
Institute for Personalized Medicine, Mount Sinai School of
Medicine, New York, New York, United States of America;
3
Psychiatry, Mount Sinai School of Medicine, New York, New York,
United States of America; 4
Genetics and Genomic Sciences, Mount
Sinai School of Medicine, New York, New York, United States
of America; 5
Department of Psychiatry, Washington University
School of Medicine, St. Louis, MO, United States of America;
6
Regeneron Genetics Center, Tarrytown, New York, United States
of America
Outlining  genomic loci linked to antipsychotic induced
weight gain (AIWG) might identify individuals inclined towards
weight gain and cardiometabolic dysregulation. Thus, we
conducted a genome wide association (GWAS) meta-analysis
to identify loci associated with BMI change and BMI increase in
individuals on atypical antipsychotics using data from 11,230
adults (non-European 12.2%) from two EHR linked biobanks,
MyCode and BioME. Employing a linear mixed model, time on
medications was incorporated as both fixed and random effects
to obtain BMI change (BMIch) and BMI gain (BMIg), stratified
by sex and ancestry. These slopes were adjusted for baseline
BMI, baseline age, age2
, duration, and principal components.
Residuals were subsequently inverse normal transformed.
BMIg was defined as a positive residual BMIch. Ancestry and
sex specific GWAS were performed using linear regression
allowing for heterogeneity of effect by follow-up duration,
then meta-analyzed. We identified three distinct suggestively
significant (p<5.0e-07) loci: rs7699506 (β=-0.07, p=3.8e-7) near
FAT4, and rs319454 (β=0.06, p=2.5e-7) in ATP8B1 for BMIch; and
rs115018170 (β=-0.56, p=2.3e-7) near both MLXP1 and SCG2
for BMIg. While our loci have not previously been associated
with AIWG or cross-sectional BMI, nearby variants have been
associated with mental health and neurocognitive disorders.
Interestingly, SCG2 is highly expressed across the human
brain (GTEx), expression is increased in response to lithium
exposure in mice and may influence appetite through its role in
regulating neuropeptides. These results offer new insights and
potential mechanisms through which antipsychotics may alter
body mass. Further analyses are underway to validate these
findings in independent studies.
56
Unraveling Genetic Associations and Ancestral Influences
on Fibroproliferative Diseases
Gabrielle Hampton1
, Jacklyn N. Hellwege2
, Megan RoyPuckelwartz3
, Yuan Luo4
, Digna R Velez Edwards5
, Todd L
Edwards6
1
Vanderbilt University, Nashville, Tennessee, United States
of America; 2
Division of Genetic Medicine, Dept. of Medicine,
Vanderbilt Genetics Inst., Vanderbilt University Med. Ctr., Nashville,
Tennessee, United States of America; 3
Center for Genetic Medicine,
Northwestern University Clinical and Translational Science Inst.
(NUCATS), Chicago, Illinois, United States of America; 4
Institute for
Augmented Intelligence in Medicine, Institute for Innovations in
Developmental Sciences, Institute for Public Health and Medicine
(IPHAM), Center Health Information Partnerships, Northwestern
University Clinical and Translational Science Inst. (NUCATS),
Robert H. Lurie Comprehensive Cancer Center; 5
DRVE affiliation:
Div. of Quantitative Sci., Dept. of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Dept.
of BioMed. Informatics, TLE: Div. of Epidemiology, Dept. of Med.,
Vanderbilt Genetics Inst., Vanderbilt University Med. Ctr., Nashville,
Tennessee, United States of America; 6
Vanderbilt Genetics Inst.,
Div. of Epidemiology; Dept. of Med., Vanderbilt University Med.,
Nashville, Tennessee, United States of America
Presentation Abstracts Page 23
Fibroproliferative diseases (FPD), including asthma and
lupus, exhibit a common etiology and co-occurrence, suggesting
shared genetic risk factors. Racial disparities indicate a higher
prevalence in individuals of African ancestry, potentially due to
a Th2-favored genome resulting from generational exposure
to helminth parasites in Africa. We analyzed global and local
ancestry associations with FPDs to investigate this hypothesis
using data from electronic health record (EHR) biobanks: BioVU,
and the eMERGE Network. Logistic regressions with ancestry
proportions from 1000 Genomes Phase 3 populations [West
African (WAFR), East African (EAFR), Southern European (SEUR),
and Northern European (NEUR)] were performed, adjusting
for sex, age, and BMI. Associations were assessed separately
for self-identified non-Hispanic blacks (NHB) and nonHispanic whites (NHW). Positive associations were observed
for each FPD. Top associations were seen between sarcoidosis
and African ancestries (sarcoidosis: EAFR OR=1.17, WAFR
OR=1.21), while European ancestry demonstrated negative
associations (sarcoidosis: SEUR OR=0.87, NEUR OR=0.88). Local
ancestry analysis in BioVU NHB identified significant peaks at
chr2p23.3 for sarcoidosis, chr19p12, chr4p15.33-32 for lupus,
and chr10p13-15.1 for asthma. Targeted associations using
BioVU NHB GWAS summary statistics identified potential
causal SNPs, including CELF2 (asthma: rs543494131 OR=5.33),
TWIST2 (sarcoidosis: rs73104883 OR=6.38), and ZNF724 (lupus:
rs188752820 OR=7.35). These genes have been associated with
T-cell activation and the inflammatory immune response. Our
findings highlight shared immune-mediated susceptibility
to FPDs in NHB, potentially contributing to the higher
prevalence among individuals of African ancestry. European
ancestry appears to have a protective relationship with FPD
development, possibly due to variations in T-cell regulation
and inflammatory responses.
57
Identifying Rare Non-coding Genetic Aggregate
Associations for Height in 331,100 Whole-genome
Sequences
G. Hawkes1
, R.N.Beaumont1
, Z. Li2
, R. Mandla3
, X. Li4
, J. Locke1
,
N. Owens1
, A. Murray, K. Patel1
, T.M. Frayling1
, C.F.Wright1
, A.R.
Wood1
, X. Lin2
, A. Manning3
 & M. N. Weedon1
1
Clinical and Biomedical Sciences, University of Exeter, United
Kingdom; 2
Department of Biostatistics and Health Data Science,
Indiana University, United States of America; 3
Department of
Medicine, Harvard Medical School, Broad Institute, Boston, United
States of America; 4
Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health
(HSPH), Harvard T.H. Chan School Of Public Health, United States
of America
Most sequence-based association studies for common
human phenotypes have focussed on rare variants that reside
in the coding regions of the genome. However, the recent
release of whole-genome-sequence (WGS) data in 100,000s
individuals from several studies provides an unprecedented
opportunity to examine rare, non-coding variants and their
contribution towards the genetic architecture of common
traits.
We performed the largest WGS-based analysis for height to
date using 333,100 individuals from three studies: UK Biobank
(n=200,003), TOPMed (n=87,652), and All of Us (n45,445). We
developed a generalized analytical pipeline with the aim of
finding novel rare (<0.1% minor-allele frequency) non-coding
genetic aggregate associations. We subsequently tested
75,311,546 variants which had at least 20 carriers in the UK
Biobank and performed 52,749,161 genomic aggregates tests
split into gene-centric (e.g. proximal) and non-gene-centric
(e.g. regulatory), where variants were grouped by measures
of conservation, constraint, and deleteriousness. Finally, we
performed a hypothesis-free 2kbp sliding window analysis.
We observed 30 independent novel rare variants associated
with height at p<6.3x10-10, after conditioning on more than
13,000 previously reported loci. Effect sizes ranged from -7cm to
+2cm and replicated three rare single variant associations. We
also observed evidence for non-coding associations proximal
to HMGA1, which alter a transcription start site, causing a
5cm increase in height, GH1 and an association downstream
of C17orf49 overlapping miRNA which have been previously
implicated in growth phenotypes. Our approach found novel
non-coding associations for height and provides a template for
the analysis of non-coding rare variants for common human
phenotypes.
58
mv-DeLIVR: A Deep Learning Based Multivariable TWAS
Method for Nonlinear Causal Gene Discovery
Ruoyu He1,2,*, Chunlin Li3
, Zhaotong Lin4
, Xiaotong Shen1
 and
Wei Pan2
1
School of Statistics, University of Minnesota, Minneapolis,
Minnesota, United States of America; 2
Division of Biostatistics,
School of Public Health, University of Minnesota, Minneapolis,
Minnesota, United States of America; 3Department of Statistics,
Iowa State University, Ames, Iowa, United States of America;
4
Department of Statistics, Florida State University, Tallahassee,
Florida, United States of America
Transcriptome-Wise Association Studies (TWAS) have
become a critical tool in identifying gene-trait associations, yet
current univariable methods often overlook the confounding
effects of linkage disequilibrium (LD) and potential nonlinear
gene-trait relationships. In this paper, we introduce mvDeLIVR, a robust multivariable TWAS method based
on neural networks, which accounts for horizontal
pleiotropy and permits the estimation of complex genetrait associations. We extend the existing univariable
DeLIVR (uv-DeLIVR) model to a multivariable setting
and augment it with a direct effect model to account
for horizontal pleiotropy. We use GTEx gene expression
data and UK Biobank GWAS data to conduct simulations
and perform real data analyses, focusing on High-Density
Lipoprotein (HDL) as target traits. Our results demonstrate that
mv-DeLIVR controls the Type I error rate at a nominal level and
possesses high power in most scenarios, offering significant
improvements over existing univariable methods.
Transcriptome-Wise Association Studies (TWAS) have
become a critical tool in identifying gene-trait associations, yet
current univariable methods often overlook the confounding
effects of linkage disequilibrium (LD) and potential nonlinear
gene-trait relationships. In this paper, we introduce mvDeLIVR, a robust multivariable TWAS method based on neural 
Page 24 The 2023 Annual Meeting of the International Genetic Epidemiology Society
networks, which accounts for horizontal pleiotropy and
permits the estimation of complex gene-trait associations.
We extend the existing univariable DeLIVR (uv-DeLIVR) model
to a multivariable setting and augment it with a direct effect
model to account for horizontal pleiotropy. We use GTEx
gene expression data and UK Biobank GWAS data to conduct
simulations and perform real data analyses, focusing on
High-Density Lipoprotein (HDL) as target traits. Our results
demonstrate that mv-DeLIVR controls the Type I error rate at
a nominal level and possesses high power in most scenarios,
offering significant improvements over existing univariable
methods.
59
Polygenic Scores for Estimated Glomerular Filtration Rate
in a Population of General Adults and Elderly
Janina M. Herold1
*, Jana Nano2,3, Mathias Gorski1
, Thomas W.
Winkler1
, Martina E. Zimmermann1
, Annette Peters2,3, Ralph
Burkhardt4
, Iris M. Heid1
, Christian Gieger2,5,6, Klaus J. Stark1
1
Department of Genetic Epidemiology, University of Regensburg,
Regensburg, Germany; 2
Institute of Epidemiology, Helmholtz
Center Munich-German Research Center for Environmental
Health, Neuherberg, Germany; 3
Institute for Medical Information
Processing, Biometry, and Epidemiology, LMU Munich, Munich,
Germany; 4
Institute of Clinical Chemistry and Laboratory Medicine,
University Hospital Regensburg, Regensburg, Germany; 5Institute
of Genetic Epidemiology, Helmholtz Center Munich, Neuherberg,
Germany; 6
Research Unit Molecular Epidemiology, Institute of
Epidemiology, Helmholtz Center Munich-German Research Center
for Environmental Health, Neuherberg, Germany
Kidney function is commonly assessed by glomerular
filtration rate estimated by serum creatinine (eGFRcrea) or cystatin
(eGFRcys). The polygenic score (PGS) for eGFRcrea has explained
less eGFRcrea variance in elderly compared to general adults. To
identify factors determining age-dependent differences on the
variance explained by PGS, we evaluated PGS variance, eGFR
variance, and beta estimates of PGS association on eGFR.
We used 634 variants known for eGFRcrea and 204 variants
newly identified for eGFRcys to calculate PGSs in two comparable
studies with distinct age ranges: KORA-S4 (n = 2,900; age 24–69
years) and AugUR (n = 2,272, age ≥ 70 years).
The PGS for eGFRcrea explained almost twice as much (R2
= 9.6%) of age- and sex-adjusted eGFR variance in general
adults compared to elderly (4.6%). This difference was less
pronounced for the PGS for eGFRcys (4.7% or 3.6%, respectively).
This difference was not explained by differences in the PGS
beta estimates between general adults and elderly, neither
by the more frequent comorbidities and medication intake
in elderly. The allele frequencies, and thus the PGS variance,
between general adults and elderly individuals showed no
significant differences except for one variant near APOE
(rs429358); we found no evidence for survival or selection bias
by enrichment of eGFR-protective alleles in the elderly.
We concluded that the difference in explained eGFR
variance by PGS was primarily due to the higher eGFR variance
in the elderly, after adjusting for age. Our results underscore
the need for careful interpretation of PGS based R² values.
60
The POPGEN Project: Building a French Reference Panel of
Genomes
A. F. Herzig1
, M. Guivarch1
, G. Marenne1
, A. Saint Pierre1
, T.
Ludwig1,2, I. Alves3
, C. Dina3
, R. Redon3
, J. M. Sebaoun4
, L. Gressin4
,
J. C. Beaudoin4
, V. Morel4
, B. Fin5
, C. Besse5
, R. Olaso5
, D. Bacq5
,
V. Meyer5
, F. Sandron5
, A. Ferrane6
, A. Boland5
, H. Blanché4
, M.
Zins7
, J. F. Deleuze4,5, G. Le Folgoc1
, E. Génin1,2
1
University Brest, Inserm, EFS, UMR 1078, GGB, IBSAM, Brest, France;
2
CHU Brest, Brest, France; 3
Nantes Université, CHU Nantes, CNRS,
INSERM, L’institut du Thorax, Nantes, France; 4
Fondation Jean
Dausset, CEPH, Paris, France; 5
Université Paris-Saclay, CEA, Centre
National de Recherche en Génomique Humaine (CNRGH), , Evry,
France; 6
Institut de Santé Publique, Pôle de Recherche Clinique,
INSERM, Paris, France; 7
Université de Paris Cité, Université ParisSaclay, UVSQ, Inserm, Cohortes Epidémiologiques en Population,
UMS 11, Villejuif, France
Background/Objectives: The POPGEN project was
launched as part of the French genomic medical initiative to
build a catalogue of variants found in the different regions of
metropolitan France and provide allele frequencies in order
to help filter out neutral variants from patient genomes.
Methods: Individuals from the population cohort
Constances were asked to complete a questionnaire on
birthplaces and birth years of their parents and grandparents.
Based on their answers, 15,000 individuals were selected to
cover the different regions of metropolitan France and were
posted saliva collection kits. Genotyping was successful for
9,772 individuals and 4,000 individuals were selected for wholegenome sequencing. Different methods were used to study
fine-scale population structure and rare variants were imputed
using public reference panels enriched by 856 whole genomes
from the FranceGenRef project.
Results: We demonstrate the fine-scale population
structure of French populations and show how it relates to
geography. Using these results, we show how the performance
of imputation panels can vary across the territory; driven by
patterns in haplotype sharing. We also investigate the important
impact for downstream genetic epidemiological study designs.
Conclusions: This study proposes a design to sample
individuals from the general population to create reference
panels that could help improve imputation accuracy for
geographically clustered variants. The POPGEN project will
contribute to the “Genome of Europe” project.
Grant: French Ministry of Research PFMG2025 and ANR IA10-LABX-0013 FranceGenRef
61
A Model for Co-occurrent Assortative Mating and Vertical
Cultural Transmission and Its Impact on Measures of
Genetic Associations
Anthony F. Herzig1,*, Aude Saint-Pierre1
, Emmanuelle Génin1,2,
Hervé Perdry3
1
Inserm, Univ Brest, EFS, UMR 1078, GGB, Brest, France; 2
CHRU
Brest, Brest, France; 3
CESP Inserm U1018, Université Paris-Saclay,
UVSQ, Villejuif, France
*Presenting Author
Background/Objectives: Assortative mating is widespread in human populations; shortly put, it occurs when there 
Presentation Abstracts Page 25
is positive correlation between mates’ phenotypes. It induces a
positive correlation between the genetic and the environmental
values of parents. If in addition parent-offspring environment is
shared, it leads to a correlation between the offspring’s genetic
value and his/her environment. This latter correlation will build
up generation after generation, until an equilibrium point is
reached. We aim to explore the consequences of this geneenvironment correlation on SNP heritability and polygenic
score performances.
Methods: In the framework of the polygenic additive
model, we assume that there is a correlation r between mate
phenotypes, and a correlation ν between parent-offspring
environments. We derive the equations governing the
evolution of the gene-environment correlation ρ, and its value
at equilibrium. The validity of these results is confirmed by
realistic genome-wide simulations. We give estimates for the
impact of ρ on estimated SNP effect sizes, SNP-heritability
estimates, and polygenic score performances.
Results: The gene-environment correlation ρ increases
with r and ν, and can exceed ρ = 0.5 when r and ν reach high
values (>0.7). The SNP effect sizes estimates and the SNPheritability estimates can be severely impacted. The prediction
ability of polygenic scores is less affected but essentially
because polygenic scores are correlated with the environment.
Conclusion: The combination of assortative mating
and shared familial environment can induce sizable geneenvironment correlations in a population, which affects genetic
epidemiology methods.
62
Genetic Susceptibility to Radiation Therapy Side Effects in
Childhood Cancer Survivors in Gene-FCCSS Project
Monia Zidane1
, Brice Fresneau², Anthony Herzig3
, Ibrahima
Diallo4
, Cristina Veres4
, Nadia Haddy1
, François Doz5
, Carole
Rubino1
, Hélène Blanché6
, Anne Boland-Augé7
, Jean-François
Deleuze6,7, Emmanuelle Génin3,8, Florent de Vathaire1
1
University Paris-Saclay, UVSQ, Inserm, Gustave Roussy, CESP,
Team “Radiations Epidemiology,” Villejuif, 94805, France;
2
Department of Pediatric Oncology, Gustave Roussy, Université
Paris-Saclay, Villejuif, France; 3
University Brest, Inserm, EFS, UMR
1078, GGB, IBSAM, Brest, France; 4
Inserm France; 5
University Paris
Cité, SIREDO Center (Care, Research, Innovation in Pediatric,
Adolescents and Young Adults Oncology), Institut Curie, Paris,
France; 6
Fondation Jean Dausset, CEPH, Paris, France; 7
Université
Paris-Saclay, CEA, Centre National de Recherche en Génomique
Humaine (CNRGH), Evry, France; 8
CHU Brest, Brest, France
The French Childhood Cancer Survivor Study (FCCSS) is the
French cohort focusing on the late effects of childhood cancer
treatments with the longest follow-up (mean follow-up of 32
years). All patients included in FCCSS have had radiation dose
reconstruction per organ and detailed clinical, therapeutic, and
follow-up data.
The Gene-FCCSS project was set up to sequence and
analyze the genetic data from FCCSS; one of our main objectives
is to analyze the genetic susceptibility to childhood cancer
treatment side effects, especially iatrogenic cancerous and
non-cancerous radiation-related pathologies.
Whole genome sequencing will be performed on available
saliva or blood samples from 2,872 FCCSS patients. Of them,
1,518 have been treated with radiotherapy, and median doses
in Gy were: 0.5 at the brain, 1.4 at the thyroid gland, 1.6 at the
heart, 1.2 at the breast, and 3.0 at the kidney. A total of 2,263
patients have been treated with chemotherapy.
The analyses will investigate the genetic susceptibility
to childhood cancer treatment side-effects such as the risk
of second primary neoplasm (n=440), severe cardiac disease
(n=240), treated diabetes mellitus (320), severe ototoxicity
(n=300), surgically treated cataract (n=60), chronic renal
failure (n=70), and stroke (n=110). Interaction between genetic
variants and radiation/ chemotherapy doses will be tested
for each iatrogenic disease. Novel methods for including
the inference of large-scale control panels from the general
population of France will be explored.
Gene-FCCSS will present a major European source
of information about genetic susceptibility to radiation
related pathologies.
Grant no: (INCA R21176LP and PL-SHS N°2022140)
63
Genetic Interactions Between Primary Open-Angle
Glaucoma loci Add Another Layer of Complexity in Disease
Etiology
Jibril Hirbo1,2, Valeria Lo Faro3,4,5, Alexandra Scillaci1
, Harold
Snieder6
, Nomdo M. Jansonius3
, Karen Joos7
, Nancy J. Cox1,2
1
Department of Medicine, Division of Genetic Medicine, Vanderbilt
University School of Medicine, Nashville, Tennessee, United States
of America; 2
Vanderbilt Genetics Institute, Vanderbilt University
Medical Center, Nashville, Tennessee, United States of America;
3
Department of Ophthalmology, University of Groningen,
University Medical Center Groningen, Groningen, The Netherlands;
4
Department of Clinical Genetics, Amsterdam University Medical
Center (AMC), Amsterdam, The Netherlands; 5
Department
of Immunology, Genetics and Pathology, Science for Life
Laboratory, Uppsala University, Uppsala, Sweden; 6
Department of
Epidemiology, University of Groningen, University Medical Center
Groningen, Groningen, The Netherlands; 7
Vanderbilt Eye Institute,
Vanderbilt University School of Medicine, Nashville, Tennessee,
United States of America
Glaucoma is an eye disease that poses a large public health
and economic burden that is estimated at nearly 5.8 billion
annually. There is disparity in Glaucoma prevalence, clinical
presentations, and outcomes across ancestries. Considering
genetic interactions contribute to phenotypic complexity,
we hypothesized that ancestry-specific genetic interactions
in Glaucoma might underlie additional etiology of observed
disparity. We explored genetic interaction between GWAS lead
SNPs that represent all the loci that have been cumulatively
identified to date in four cohorts/Biobanks: BioVU (European/
African), Lifelines biobank, GLGS cohort (European), and Allof-US (European/African) in a total of 400K and 100K European
and African ancestry individuals, respectively. We further
determined the effect of the locus that show interaction across
cohorts and ancestries, by checking the differences in the
measured gene expressions of genes in target loci in GTEx data.
We identified a total of 9 and 56 significant pairwise interactions
in European and African American ancestry individuals,
respectively. These interactions are mainly due to 7 core loci
with at least three pairwise interactions with other loci across 
Page 26 The 2023 Annual Meeting of the International Genetic Epidemiology Society
the two ancestries, which were either shared (single locus) and
unique to an ancestry: European (two loci) and Africans (four
loci). The lead variant in the locus that show interaction across
ancestries, Chr3_rs62250629_CADM2, had significant trans
effect on NEAT1 gene in chr11_ rs12789028 locus and interact
with local GTEx eQTL to alter the gene’s expression pattern. Our
findings point to genetic interactions as additional contributors
to disease etiology and observed disparities in glaucoma.
64
Fast and Powerful Mixed-model Association Analysis for
Genome-wide Association Studies
Jasper P. Hof1
, Doug Speed2
1
Radboud University Medical Center, Nijmegen, The Netherlands;
2
Aarhus University, Aarhus, Denmark
In recent years, mixed model association analysis (MMAA)
has emerged as the preferred method for performing a
genome-wide association study. MMAA can control type 1 error
by accounting for population structure and familial relatedness
and can increase statistical power by conditioning on effects
of causal loci distal to the SNP being tested. However, existing
MMAA software often requires long run times and substantial
memory.
We introduce LDAK-KVIK, a new tool for MMAA of
quantitative and binary phenotypes. LDAK-KVIK first constructs
a genetic prediction model, then includes this model as an
offset when testing genetic variants for association with the
phenotype. LDAK-KVIK has three novel features. Firstly, it
includes a flexible elastic net algorithm that produces stateof-the-art genetic prediction models (e.g., more accurate than
those from BayesR, glmnet, and Bolt-LMM). Secondly, LDAKKVIK never reads in more than 256 genetic variants at once, and
therefore has very low computational requirements. Thirdly,
we have implemented an empirical saddlepoint approximation
method for robust association analysis of unbalanced binary
traits, which is orders of magnitude faster than existing
methods.
As a result, LDAK-KVIK is both powerful and efficient.
For example, LDAK-KVIK takes approximately 12 CPU hours
to analyze GWAS data for 420k individuals and 10M SNP and
requires less than 10Gb memory. By contrast, REGENIE and
Bolt-LMM, two leading methods for MMAA, require 31 and
150 CPU hours, respectively, to analyze the same data. Applied
to 20 traits from UK Biobank, LDAK-KVIK finds 15% and 7%,
respectively, more genome-wide significant loci than Bolt-LMM
and REGENIE.
65
A Pathway Enrichment Approach to Understand the
Contributions of Rare Coding Genetic Variants to Sjögren’s
Disease
Mary K. Horton1
, Joanne Nititham1
, Kimberly E Taylor2
, NIH
Intramural Sequencing Center Comparative Sequencing
Program1
, Sjögren’s International Collaborative Clinical Alliance,
Lisa F. Barcellos3
, Caroline H. Shiboski2
, Lindsey A. Criswell1
1
National Human Genome Research Institute, National Institutes
of Health, Bethesda, Maryland, United States of America;
2
University of California San Francisco, San Francisco, California,
United States of America; 3
Division of Epidemiology, School of
Public Health, University of California Berkeley, Berkeley California,
United States of America
Compared to other autoimmune conditions, the known
genetic contributions to Sjögren’s disease (SD) are limited. We
aimed to identify classes of genes containing rare high impact
variants associated with severe SD.
Whole exome sequences were generated for 387
participants in the Sjögren’s International Collaborative Clinical
Alliance. A weighted score of five clinical criteria was used for
selection: 120 with score=9 (severe cases) and 267 with score=0.
Analyses were restricted to putative loss-of-function (pLOF)
and deleterious missense variants with a minor allele frequency
≤1%. Gene P values were obtained using SKAT-O, which tested
for the association between a gene’s variant set and severe SD
status. Analyses adjusted for common and rare genetic principal
components, age, and sex. We assessed whether genes with
P<0.05 were significantly enriched in biological pathways, using
Fisher’s exact test and multiple testing correction implemented
in g:Profiler.
Severe SD cases were 93% female (83% among noncases) and had an average age of onset of 48 years (46 years
among non-cases). On average, severe SD cases carried 46.8
rare pLOF or deleterious variants while non-cases carried 47.5.
SKAT-O analyses identified 137 genes with P<0.05. Twentyone pathways were significantly enriched among these genes
(Padj<0.05), including ion binding (adjusted Padj=1.82x10-4) and
cytoplasm (Padj=1.62x10-3).
The number of rare, high impact variants present among
severe SD cases was similar to non-cases. However, ion binding
and cytoplasm pathways were significantly enriched among
genes most associated with severe SD status. This may improve
identification of novel therapeutic pathways and mechanisms
of SD pathogenesis.
66
Bayesian Networks Applied to Type 2 Diabetes Data from
the IMI DIRECT Project
Richard Howey1
, Ana Viñuela1
, The IMI DIRECT consortium,
Heather J. Cordell1
1
Faculty of Medical Sciences, Newcastle University, Newcastle
upon Tyne, United Kingdom
Bayesian networks (BN) can be useful for performing
exploratory analysis of large complex datasets to identify
possible causal relationships between measured variables
based on their conditional dependencies and independencies.
We apply BN analysis methods to a large Type 2 diabetes dataset
taken from the IMI DIRECT consortium. The initial dataset
consisted of over 16,000 variables including gene expression,
protein, metabolite and clinical variables together with over 9
million SNP data variables. This was reduced to a dataset with
around 300 variables based on various association analyses,
and the retained SNPs were collated into 121 allele score
variables. Of the 795 individuals, only 29 had complete data
for every variable. We used our own BN software, BayesNetty,
which has been developed to incorporate a novel imputation
algorithm that can handle missing data even when the dataset
consists of a mixture of discrete and continuous variables. From
networks fitted to the data we find that variables of the same
kind tend to be more connected (e.g. gene expression with 
Presentation Abstracts Page 27
gene expression) and similar clinical variables (e.g. body mass
index and weight) are strongly related. Since the resultant BNs
are very large and can be difficult to interpret, we also present
sub-networks (given by Markov blankets) focused on variables
of interest and related variables. A sex-centered sub-network
found a causal role of sex on the abundance of glycine and
other metabolites. Our BN software package, BayesNetty, is
freely available as open-source software.
67
Conditional Generative Adversarial Network-driven
Radiomic Prediction of Gene Mutation Status Using
Magnetic Resonance Images of Breast Cancer
Zi Huai Huang1
, Qian Liu1
, Lianghong Chen2
, Yan Sun1,2,
Pingzhao Hu1,2,3,4,5* 1
Department of Biochemistry, Schulich School of Medicine &
Dentistry, Western University, London, Canada; 2
Department
of Computer Science, Western University, London, Canada;
3
Department of Oncology, Schulich School of Medicine &
Dentistry, Western University, London, Canada; 4
Department
of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, Western University, London,
Canada; 5
The Children’s Health Research Institute—Lawson
Health Research Institute, London, Canada
Radiogenomics is an emerging field that aims to combine
medical images and genomic measurements; however, most
radiogenomic studies face the challenge of unpaired data
comprising of imaging, genomic or clinical outcome data. In
this study, the multi-omic profiles (RNA gene expression, DNA
methylation, and copy number variation) of breast cancer
patients from The Cancer Genome Atlas was integrated and
factorized into 17 latent features using a Bayesian tensor
factorization approach. A conditional generative adversarial
network (cGAN) was trained using the matched patient magnetic
resonance images (MRIs) from The Cancer Imaging Archive and
their corresponding latent features. Model performance was
evaluated using Frechet’s Inception Distance (FID) to compare
the real images and the predicted images on the test set, which
produced a low FID score of 1.53. Using the trained model, we
performed MRI predictions for 690 BC patients with only multiomic profiles but no MRI data. A convolutional neural network
was trained to predict mutation status of TP53, PIK3CA, and
CDH1 from the produced images, which achieved ROC area
under curve (AUC) values of 0.93, 0.75, and 0.78, and precisionrecall AUC values of 0.90, 0.64, and 0.46 for TP53, PIK3CA, and
CDH1, respectively. Our study establishes cGANs as a viable
tool for generating synthetic BC MRIs for cancer driver genes’
mutation status prediction. Synthetic images have the potential
to significantly augment existing MRI data and circumvent
issues surrounding data sharing and patient privacy. These
findings also have important implications for future machine
learning studies focused on BC research.
68
Interaction of Lifestyle and Polygenic Risk Scores on
Colorectal Cancer Risk in the Multiethnic Cohort Study
Brian Z. Huang1
, Fei Chen1
, David Bogumil1
, Peggy Wan1
, Lynne
Wilkens2
, Loic Le Marchand2
, David V. Conti1
, Christopher A.
Haiman1
1
Department of Population and Public Health Sciences, Keck
School of Medicine of USC, Los Angeles, California, United
States of America; 2
Population Sciences of the Pacific ProgramEpidemiology, University of Hawaii Cancer Center, Honolulu,
Hawaii, United States of America
Integrating information from lifestyle and genetic risk
factors has the potential to greatly improve the prediction of
colorectal cancer (CRC) risk. We evaluated CRC risk associated
with genetic and lifestyle factors in 68,374 African-American,
Native Hawaiian, Japanese-American, Latino, and White
participants from the Multiethnic Cohort Study (MEC). Genetic
predisposition was assessed using a polygenic risk score (PRS)
of 205 established CRC risk variants. We calculated a healthy
lifestyle factor score (HLFS) based on smoking status, alcohol
consumption, BMI, and physical activity. Associations with CRC
risk were evaluated using Cox regression. There were 1,300
incident CRC cases identified over an average 13.9-year followup. Each standard deviation increase in the PRS was associated
with an increased CRC risk of 44% among Japanese- Americans
(p<0.001), 33% among Latinos (p<0.001), 32% among African
Americans (p<0.001), 29% among Whites (p<0.001), and a nonsignificant 16% among Native Hawaiians (p=0.19). The highest
quintile of the HLFS was associated with a 37% reduced CRC
risk (p<0.001) compared to the lowest quintile. This association
also differed by levels of the PRS (low 0-50% vs. high 50-100%),
where the highest HLFS quintile had a 47% reduced CRC risk
in the high PRS group (HR 0.53, 95% CI 0.41-1.69), and a nonsignificant 18% reduced risk in the low PRS group (HR 0.82,
95% CI 0.59-1.14) (p-interaction=0.02). Our findings suggest
that incorporating both genetic and lifestyle information can
help to enhance the risk stratification of CRC, and that a healthy
lifestyle may offer greater protection among those more
genetically susceptible.
70
Mitochondrial DNA Sequence Analysis of Epithelial Ovarian
Carcinomas  
Brooke D. Jorgensen1
, Nicholas B. Larson1*, Chen Wang1
, Thomas
A. Sellers2
, Stacey J. Winham1
, Sebastian M. Armasu1
, Alvaro
Monteiro3
, and Ellen L. Goode1
1
Mayo Clinic, Rochester, Minnesota, United States of America;
2
Knight Cancer Institute, Oregon Health Sciences University,
Portland, Oregon, United States of America; 3
H. Lee Moffitt Cancer
Center and Research Institute, Tampa, Florida, United States of
America
Mitochondria play a key role in energy metabolism,
reactive oxygen species generation, and apoptosis, yet the
relevance of mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) variation in complex
diseases is understudied. Seeking to explore the spectrum of
mtDNA variation in epithelial ovarian carcinoma, we performed
targeted mtDNA sequencing of fresh frozen tumors from
Mayo Clinic study participants. After quality control, 389
mitochondrial genomes were analyzed, including those from
320 tubo-ovarian high-grade serous carcinomas (HGSC; 231
deaths), 42 endometrioid carcinomas (EC), and 18 clear cell
carcinomas (CCC). We derived regional weighted variant burden
scores based on mtDNA functional domains, accounting for
underlying haplogroup, heteroplasmic fraction, and predicted
functional impact. Accounting for predicted haplogroup, we
identified a median of two global private heteroplasmies per 
Page 28 The 2023 Annual Meeting of the International Genetic Epidemiology Society
tumor (range: 0-9). Elevated mutation rates were identified in
the mitochondrial control region, as well as among various
mt-tRNAs (>3 per 10 kb per sample); the majority of recurrent
variants across tumors were seen in the mtDNA control region.
Regional mtDNA burden scores differed by histotype for MTCO1 (mitochondrially-encoded cytochrome c oxidase I, CO1)
and the oxidative phosphorylation complex IV genes (likelihood
ratio test P-values<0.005), with higher burdens in HGSCs and
CCCs relative to ECs. Among HGSCs, increased variant burden in
MT-CO1 was associated with longer overall survival (covariateadjusted HR 0.33; 95% CI 0.15-0.74, P-value=0.007). These
results suggest tumor mtDNA alterations in epithelial ovarian
carcinoma may relate to clinical aggressiveness or treatment
response and merit additional study with continued followup in this study population and in additional epithelial ovarian
carcinoma collections.  
71
Genetic Determinants for Differences in Adult Body Mass
Change Using Growth Curve Analysis
Anne E. Justice1*, Navya Shilpa Josyula1
, Geetha Chittoor1
, Yasser
Elmanzalawi1
, Mostafa M. Hamza1
, Craig Wood2
, Christopher
Still2
1
Department of Population Health Sciences, Geisinger, Danville,
Pennsylvania, United States of America; 2
Center for Obesity and
Metabolic Disorders, Geisinger, Danville, Pennsylvania, United
States of America
Previous work on links between genomics and patterns of
adult body mass index change (BMIchg) is limited and primarily
relies on cross-sectional measurements stratified by age
groups or recalled weights. Further, investigations attempting
to identify genetic effects on BMIchg rely largely on small
cohort studies with short duration of follow-up and focus on
only a single aspect of BMIchg, such as total change over time.
We analyzed longitudinal BMI trajectories over a duration of
25 years using a study cohort including 96,934 MyCode adult
participants. We used the SuperImposition by Translation
and Rotation (SITAR) method to measure three characteristics
of BMIchg: increased life course BMI (size), younger age at
maximum BMI (tempo), and higher rate of BMI increase (velocity)
Genome-wide association analyses identified 63 significant loci
(p value < 5x10-8), including 61 for size, seven for tempo, and
four for velocity loci. Of the 63, one locus associated with size
has not previously been associated with cross-sectional BMI,
rs11210887 in PTPRF, but has been associated with related
neurocognitive, behavioral, and cardiometabolic traits (e.g.
dietary patterns, anorexia nervosa, blood pressure). Two well
established BMI loci, FTO and MC4R, were associated with all
three metrics, indicating that they influence size, tempo, and
velocity. Of note, two loci were associated with only tempo,
rs8118253 in MACROD2 and rs4144233 in LMX1B. Our results
highlight loci that increase risk of obesity, rapid weight gain,
and earlier onset of obesity, and thus may prove beneficial in
prioritizing early monitoring and intervention.
72
Multi-ancestry GWAS of Prostate-specific Antigen Levels
Identifies Novel Loci and Improves Cross-population
Prediction
Thomas J Hoffmann1,2, Rebecca E Graff2
, Ravi K Madduri3
, Alex
A Rodriguez3
, Sonja I Berndt4
, Mitchell J Machiela4
, Jonathan
D Mosley5
, David V Conti6
, Linda Kachuri*7,8, John S Witte7,8 on
behalf of the PSA Genetics Consortium
1
Institute for Human Genetics, University of California San
Francisco, San Francisco, California, United States of America;
2
Department of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, University of
California San Francisco, San Francisco, California, United States
of America; 3
Data Science and Learning Division, Argonne National
Laboratory, Argonne, Illinois, United States of America; 4
Division
of Cancer Epidemiology and Genetics, National Cancer Institute,
Rockville, Maryland, United States of America; 5
Department
of Internal Medicine, Vanderbilt University Medical Center,
Nashville, Tennessee, United States of America; 6
Center for Genetic
Epidemiology, Department of Population and Preventive Health
Sciences, Keck School of Medicine, University of Southern California,
Los Angeles, California, United States of America; 7
Department of
Epidemiology and Population Health, Stanford University School of
Medicine, Stanford, California, United States of America; 8
Stanford
Cancer Institute, Stanford University School of Medicine, Stanford,
California, United States of America
Prostate-specific antigen (PSA) is an enzyme encoded
by KLK3 and secreted by the prostate gland. PSA levels tend
to increase in the presence of prostate cancer. Despite being
a reliable marker of prostate cancer recurrence, PSA testing
for population-level screening is not recommended due to
potential for overdiagnosis of non-aggressive disease. Previous
studies have shown that adjusting measured PSA values based
on an individual’s genetic predisposition may improve test
accuracy by removing variation in PSA unrelated to cancer risk.
However, these findings were largely based on men of European
ancestry.
We extend previous work by conducting the largest
multi-ancestry GWAS of PSA levels in men across nine cohorts,
including the Million Veteran Program: 211,342 European
ancestry; 58,236 African ancestry, 23,546 Hispanic/Latino, and
3,630 Asian ancestry. We identified 319 independent variants (p
value<5×10-8), including 185 novel associations, 73% of which
replicated in an independent GWAS. Notable findings included
rs372203682 in LMTK2, a gene implicated in spermatogenesis,
and rs184476359, a signal in the androgen receptor (AR) that
was primarily driven by the African ancestry population.
Next, we constructed a genome-wide polygenic score for
PSA levels using an approach that infers posterior effect sizes
under continuous shrinkage priors coupled across populations.
The variance in PSA levels explained by the resulting score was
16.9% (95% CI=16.1%-17.8%) in European ancestry, 9.5% (95%
CI=7.0%-12.2%) in African ancestry, 18.6% (95% CI=15.8%-
21.4%) in Hispanic/Latino, and 15.3% (95% CI=12.7%-18.1%)
in Asian ancestry populations. These results further our efforts
towards more personalized and equitable prostate cancer
screening.
Presentation Abstracts Page 29
74
Leveraging the All of Us Biobank to Build Multi-ancestry
Polygenic Scores for NSAID-induced Gastrointestinal
Bleeding
Karl E. Keat1
*, Emanuela Ricciotti2
, Kayla J. Barekat3
, Kathleen
M. Cardone4
, Garret A. FitzGerald3
, Dokyoon Kim5,6, Marylyn D.
Ritchie4,5,6
1
Genomics and Computational Biology Graduate Group,
University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, United
States of America; 2
Department of Pharmacology, University
of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, United States of
America; 3
Institute for Translational Medicine and Therapeutics,
University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania,
United States of America; 4
Department of Genetics, University
of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, United States
of America; 5
Department of Biostatistics and Epidemiology,
University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, United
States of America; 6
Institute for Biomedical Informatics, University
of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, United States of
America
Non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) are
a class of widely used drugs for the management of pain,
fever, and inflammation in a broad spectrum of diseases.
NSAID use is associated with life-threatening adverse drug
reactions (ADRs), including gastrointestinal bleeding and acute
coronary syndrome. Given the severity of these outcomes and
the large number of patients affected, there is a significant
need to predict individual risk of NSAID ADRs. The Clinical
Pharmacogenetics Implementation Consortium (CPIC) has
published guidelines for clinicians to modify NSAID treatment
in the presence of CYP2C9 loss-of-function variants; these
variants result in reduced clearance of NSAIDs and increased
risk of ADRs. However, CYP2C9 alone explains a relatively small
proportion of ADR risk, which is currently better predicted using
clinical covariates such as age, sex, concomitant drugs, and
comorbidities. To gain a better understanding of the heritable
risk of NSAID ADRs, we have performed the first large-scale
genome-wide association study for gastrointestinal bleeding
following NSAID use in a diverse population using the All of Us
(AoU) cohort, identifying several significant associations. We
also validate these associations in other biobanks including
the Penn Medicine BioBank and the UK Biobank and use them
to evaluate the performance of a polygenic risk score (PRS)
derived from the AoU GWAS summary statistics. Furthermore,
to augment the cross-ancestry performance of our PRS, we
are integrating it with a transcriptomic risk score (TRS) based
on imputed transcriptomes. Discovery of novel genomic risk
factors for ADRs improves both our biological understanding
and ability to predict NSAID ADRs.
75
Genome-wide Meta-analysis Identifies Novel Risk loci
for Uterine Fibroids within and across Multiple Ancestry
Groups
Jeewoo Kim1,2,3, Ariel Williams4
, Hannah Noh5
, Elizabeth A.
Jasper3
, Sarah H. Jones6
, Edward A. Ruiz-Narváez7
, Lauren A.
Wise8
, Julie Palmer 8
, John Connolly9
, Atlas Khan10, Mohammad
Abbass11, Laura Rasmussen-Torvik11, Leah Kottyan12, Wei-Qi
Wei13, Todd L. Edwards2,14, Digna R. Velez Edwards2,3,13, Jacklyn
N. Hellwege2,15
1
Vanderbilt University School of Medicine, Vanderbilt; 2
Vanderbilt
Genetics Institute, Vanderbilt University; 3
Division of Quantitative
Science, Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Vanderbilt
University Medical Center; 4
National Human Genome Research
Institute, NIH; 5
Medicine, Health and Society, Vanderbilt University; 6
Institute for Medicine and Public Health, Vanderbilt University
Medical Center; 7
Department of Nutritional Sciences, University of
Michigan School of Public Health; 8Department of Epidemiology,
Boston University School Public Health; 9
Center for Applied
Genomics, Department of Pediatrics, Children’s Hospital of
Philadelphia; 10Department of Medicine, Division of Nephrology,
Columbia University, College of Physicians & Surgeons,
Department of Surgery; 11Northwestern University Feinberg School
of Medicine; 12Center for Autoimmune Genomics and Etiology,
Cincinnati Children’s Hospital Medical Center, Department of
Pediatrics, University of Cincinnati; 13Department of Biomedical
Informatics, Vanderbilt University Medical Center; 14Division of
Epidemiology, Department of Medicine, Vanderbilt University
Medical Center; 15Division of Genetic Medicine, Department of
Medicine, Vanderbilt University Medical Center
Uterine leiomyomata (fibroids) are common benign tumors
of the uterus with poorly understood etiology. The prevalence
of fibroids ranges between 20 to 80% across reproductive ages.
Cost estimates for the US due to fibroids range from $5.9 to
$34.4 billion.
Previous genome-wide association studies (GWAS) have
reported 72 associated loci but featured limited sample sizes
for non-European populations. Our objective of this study is to
identify novel genetic variants associated with fibroids across
and within ancestry groups.
We conducted a meta-analysis of fibroid GWAS summary
statistics from adult female participants with 74,294 cases and
465,810 controls across European (EUR), African (AFR), East
Asian (EAS), and Central South Asian (CSA) ancestry groups
from eight datasets. Bioinformatic analyses included gene-set
enrichment and predicted expression.
We identified 371 sentinel SNPs, including nine novel loci
and 15 loci not previously discussed in literature but detected
in publicly available biobank summary statistics. Functional
analysis identified significant gene-set tissue enrichment in the
uterus, cervix, esophagus, fallopian tube, ovary, bladder, and
sigmoid colon tissues. These genes were also enriched in DNA
damage and cell cycle biological pathways.
The predicted expression of 568 gene-tissue pairs at 180
unique genes were significantly associated with fibroids. Of
those, 131 were previously unreported gene associations
with fibroids. Within uterine tissue analyses, we observed six
significant novel gene associations.
We identified consistent and unique associations at SNPs
across populations and tissues in predicted uterine gene
expression. These new genetic loci and uterine expression
factors may provide translational opportunities for novel fibroid
treatments.
Page 30 The 2023 Annual Meeting of the International Genetic Epidemiology Society
76
Meta-analysis of Multinomial Genome-wide Association
Study (GWAS) of Radiographic Knee Osteoarthritis
Progression
Sumin Kim1*, Liubov Arbeeva2
, Amanda E. Nelson2,3,4, S. Amanda
Ali5,6,7+, Osvaldo Espin-Garcia8,1,9,10+
1
Department of Public Health Sciences, University of Toronto,
Toronto, Ontario, Canada; 2
Thurston Arthritis Research Center,
The University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, Chapel Hill, North
Carolina, United States of America; 3
Division of Rheumatology,
Allergy, and Immunology, Department of Medicine, University of
North Carolina School of Medicine, Chapel Hill, North Carolina,
United States of America; 4
Department of Epidemiology, University
of North Carolina Gillings School of Global Public Health, Chapel
Hill, North Carolina, United States of America; 5
Bone & Joint Center,
Henry Ford Health, Detroit, Michigan, United States of America;
6
Department of Physiology, Michigan State University, East
Lansing, Michigan, United States of America; 7
Center for Molecular
Medicine & Genetics, Wayne State University, Detroit, Michigan,
United States of America; 8
Department of Epidemiology and
Biostatistics, The University of Western Ontario, London, Canada;
9
Department of Statistical Sciences, University of Toronto, Toronto,
Ontario, Canada; 10Department of Biostatistics & Schroeder
Arthritis Institute, University Health Network, Toronto, Ontario,
Canada
*
Presenter
+Co-corresponding authors
Introduction: Knee osteoarthritis (KOA) is a common,
chronic, functionally limiting disease that is increasing in
prevalence. KOA is known to be a complex disease resulting
from multiple combinations of genetic and environmental
factors. As KOA can progress at different rates, there may be
unique genetic variants associated with progression subgroups
that are yet to be identified.
Objective: We propose a two-step approach to metaanalyze multinomial GWAS of KOA progression conducted on
two longitudinal prospective cohort studies.
Method: We defined four groups of subjects displaying
varying progression patterns using data from the Osteoarthritis
Initiative (OAI) and the Johnston County Osteoarthritis Project
(JoCoOA). Cohort specific TopMed-imputed GWA studies were
performed via multinomial logistic modeling. The proposed
meta-analysis approach consists of two steps: 1) Aggregated
Cauchy Association Test (ACAT) to combine cohort-specific p
values from the (global) likelihood ratio tests at each locus; 2)
standard meta-analysis to examine regions identified at the
first step for consistency in the direction of the effect.
Results: After identifying genome-wide significant
variants from the OAI data, the meta-analysis of the OAI and
JoCoOA studies is currently underway and is expected to
pinpoint additional variants at suggestive significance level
with consistent direction of effects.
Discussion: We anticipate the proposed tiered approach
in the context of multinomial regression meta-analysis will
improve the power to detect significantly associated variants
compared to a single step approach comparing all KOA
progression groups at each locus. Our study highlights the
novel applicability of ACAT to meta-analysis using a four-level
nominal response variable.
77
Clinical Utility of Polygenic Scores: A Critical 2023 Appraisal
Sebastian Koch1*, Jörg Schmidtke2,3, Michael Krawczak1
, Amke
Caliebe1
1
Institute of Medical Informatics and Statistics, Kiel University,
University Medical Center Schleswig-Holstein, Campus Kiel, 24105
Kiel, Germany; 2
Amedes MVZ Wagnerstibbe, Hannover, Germany; 3
Institut für Humangenetik, Medizinische Hochschule Hannover,
Hannover, Germany
Polygenic scores (PGSs) were first discovered in 2009
for schizophrenia and bipolar disorder and have since been
identified for many common complex diseases. However,
their usefulness in assessing disease risk or making treatment
decisions is likely limited because they only account for
the genetic component of a trait and ignore the impact of
environmental and lifestyle factors.
Our survey examined the current state of PGSs for diseases
such as breast cancer, diabetes, prostate cancer, coronary artery
disease, and Parkinson’s disease and how clinical scores could
be improved by combining them with PGSs. Furthermore, we
collected examples of how PGSs can be and are used for clinical
purposes.
We found that the diagnostic and prognostic performance
of PGSs alone is low for most diseases, and combining them
with clinical scores only leads to moderate improvement at
best. A notable example is Type 1 diabetes. Despite many PGSs
being reported in scientific literature, there are few external
validations and prospective studies conducted on their clinical
utility.
We concluded that it is still difficult to judge the benefit of
PGSs to individual patients or the healthcare system in general.
PGSs may be useful for optimizing screening procedures and
medication administration, but there is a lack of prospective
studies on this matter.
78
Bayesian Mixture Model for the Identification of Loci of
Interest from GWAS Summary Statistics
Rachit Kumar1,2, Rasika Venkatesh2
, Marylyn D. Ritchie3
1
Medical Scientist Training Program, Perelman School of Medicine
at the University of Pennsylvania, United States of America;
2
Genomics and Computational Biology, Perelman School of
Medicine at the University of Pennsylvania, United States of
America; 3
Department of Genetics, Perelman School of Medicine
at the University of Pennsylvania
Genome-wide association studies (GWAS) are a popular
method for analyzing the association of genetic mutations or
alterations with disease or other phenotypes. However, the
biological phenomenon of linkage disequilibrium means that
a variant that is linked to a causal variant may be mistakenly
identified as causing disease, when in reality it is merely likely
to be inherited alongside the true causal variant in a particular
region of the genome. As such, people have developed
downstream analysis methods that make use of GWAS
results to try to identify specific causal variants or identify the
functional underpinnings of their effect on disease; however,
many of these analyses require users to define the bounds of
specific regions of the genome that they would like to assess,
and these bounds can have quite significant impacts on the 
Presentation Abstracts Page 31
results of these analyses. There is therefore a need for a method
that identifies these boundaries in a rigorous and reproducible
way.
We present a method that uses Bayesian mixture models
to perform statistical inference on GWAS summary statistics
to identify whether individual genomic positions represent
“breakpoints” between regions containing insignificant variants
and regions containing significant variants, allowing one to
identify probabilistically which regions represent possible
regions where variants are in linkage that may be valuable for
downstream studies. We will show the results of this analysis
on a synthetic set of GWAS summary statistics and on various
existing GWAS summary statistics that are publicly available
over a variety of hyperparameters.
79
ColoQuium: A Software Package for Performing
Colocalization between QTL and GWAS Analyses and
Visualizing Colocalization Results
Nimay R. Kumar1,3, William P. Bone2
, Brian Y. Chen3
, Theodore
G. Drivas4
, Anastasia Lucas2
, Yogasudha Veturi5
, Rachit Kumar2
,
Marylyn D. Ritchie1,7, Benjamin F. Voight6
1
Department of Genetics, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia,
Pennsylvania, United States of America; 2
Genomics and
Computational Biology Graduate Program, University of
Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, United States of
America; 3
School of Engineering and Applied Science , University
of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, United States of
America; 4
Division of Translational Medicine and Human Genetics,
Department of Medicine, Perelman School of Medicine at the
University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, United
States of America; 5
Department of Biobehavioral Health, Penn State
University, State College, Pennsylvania, United States of America;
6
Department of Pharmacology, University of Pennsylvania,
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, United States of America; 7
Institute for
Biomedical Informatics, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia,
Pennsylvania, United States of America
Statistical colocalization between genome-wide
association studies (GWAS) signals and either expression
quantitative trait loci (eQTL) or splicing quantitative trait loci
(sQTL) is a popular method among researchers to connect
GWAS signals to candidate causal genes. ColoQuium integrates
three colocalization R packages into one streamlined pipeline
for performing colocalization and facilitating analysis through
the detailed visualization of colocalization results. ColoQuium
consists of the following: ColoGene performs colocalization
between GWAS significant SNPs and corresponding eQTLs for
a given tissue on a gene by gene basis and can accommodate
multiple causal variants per locus. This is best suited for analyses
investigating a set of genes and tissues of interest (e.g. obtained
from running transcriptome-wide association studies) using
corresponding gene expression and GWAS summary statistics.
ColocQuiaL is a framework that performs colocalization
between SNP based GWAS signals and eQTL/sQTL at scale
and returns a summary of the colocalization results across the
genome and locus visualization plots. Given a gene trait pair,
eQTpLot illustrates the colocalization and correlation between
GWAS and eQTL p values, enrichment of eQTLs among trait
significant variants, the LD landscape of the given locus, and
the relationship between the direction of effect of eQTL
signals and the direction of effect of colocalizing GWAS peaks.
ColoQuium lets researchers easily perform SNP or gene based
colocalization in one user-friendly tool, providing a better
understanding of the interaction between gene expression and
trait associations via tabulation and visualization of the results
and GWAS summary statistics.
80
Upregulation of Mitochondrial Dynamics is Associated with
Human Colorectal Cancer in North Indian Population
Ashok Kumar1
, Kirti Saini1
, Chandan Chatterji1
, Shashank
Mathur2
, Lokendra Kumar Sharma2
 1
Department of Surgical Gastroenterology & 2
Molecular Medicine,
Sanjay Gandhi Postgraduate Institute of Medical Science,
Lucknow-226014, India
Background and Aims: Dysregulation of mitochondrial
dynamics (fusion and fission) has been linked to the initiation
and progression of different types of cancer including colorectal
cancer. The present study is an interim analysis of the ongoing
project “to study the role of mitochondrial dynamics proteins
and phosphatase calcineurin in north Indian Colorectal cancer
patients.”
Methods: The expression level of mitochondrial fusion
markers in 37 colorectal cancer patients was studied by RT-qPCR
after the preparation of cDNA both from the tumor and normal
tissues. The expression level of target mitochondrial fusion
markers mfn1, mfn2, and opa1 and fission marker drp1 was
normalized by endogenous control using β-actin. GraphPad
Prism software was used for data compilation. An unpaired
t-test was performed for comparison between the two groups;
p value < 0.05 was taken as statistically significant.
Results: Out of 37 patients, there were 28 males (70%)
and 9 females in the age range of 28-71 years. This included 22
(59%) colon cancer and 15 (41%) rectal cancer patients. In our
study, both the fusion (mfn1, mfn2, and opa1) and the fission
marker (drp1) were significantly upregulated in tumor tissues.
However, mfn1 was differentially expressed while comparing
stage II and Stage III patients.
Conclusion: Our interim analysis suggests overexpression
of mitochondrial fusion and fission markers. These markers may
be playing a role in the initiation and progression of colorectal
cancer which needs further study.
81
Polygenic Scores for Major Depressive Disorder Provide
Insights into Medication use Prediction in EHR-linked
Biobank
Sandra Lapinska, Vidhya Venkateswaran, Kristin Boulier, Yi Ding,
Aditya Pimplaskar, Loes M Olde Loohuis, Bogdan Pasaniuc
AFFILIATIONS MISSING
Major depressive disorder (MDD) is the most common
psychiatric illness. Studies have shown that MDD has a complex
etiology with possible population differences in predisposing
genetic factors. Investigating the relationship between
ancestry and MDD could provide insight into how individuals
may respond to certain treatments. We use a publicly available
polygenic risk score (PGS) trained on European individuals from
the UK Biobank data for major depressive disorder to investigate 
Page 32 The 2023 Annual Meeting of the International Genetic Epidemiology Society
the clinical utility of PGS in medication use prediction within the
diverse UCLA ATLAS biobank (n > 40,000).
First, we found that the standardized MDD-PGS is associated
with the phecode for MDD across genetically inferred ancestry
(GIA) groups including European American (EUR) (OR: 1.259,
CI: [1.215, 1.306]), Hispanic Latin American (AMR) (OR: 1.117,
CI: [1.036, 1.204]), African American (AFR) (OR: 1.126, CI: [0.971,
1.304]), and East Asian American (EAS) (OR: 1.425, CI: [1.264,
1.606]). Next, we identified binary medication-use phenotypes
based on treatment options for individuals diagnosed with
MDD using de-identified patient information within the EHRlinked ATLAS biobank. Medication-use was defined into three
categories: long term use of the most recent medication class,
treatment resistant, and efficacious to one medication class.
For all analyses, we restricted to individuals diagnosed with
MDD who have no other psychiatric comorbidities like bipolar,
schizophrenia, substance use, and alcohol use disorders. Using
a GIA-stratified logistic regression model adjusted for age, age2
,
sex, and first five principal components, we found MDD-PGS
significantly associated with long term serotonin use in MDD
diagnosed individuals with AFR ancestry (OR: 0.590, CI: [0.370,
0.941], p value: 0.027). This suggests that higher genetic risk for
MDD correlates with decrease in serotonin usage in individuals
of AFR ancestries. In addition, MDD-PGS significantly associated
with long term antipsychotic use in MDD diagnosed individuals
with EAS ancestry (OR: 1.738, CI: [1.015, 2.978], p value:
0.044) suggesting that these individuals have an increase in
antipsychotic usage with higher genetic risk for MDD.
Overall, our study demonstrates the potential use of PGS
to determine effective treatments for individuals diagnosed
with major depressive disorder across ancestries. Further work
to understand the relationship between polygenic risk scores,
medication use, and ancestry is needed, but our current findings
show a promising clinical utility of PGS.
82
The Current Landscape of Chromosome X Integration in
Polygenic Risk Scores
Nicholas B. Larson1*, Anthony Batzler1
, Brandon Coombes1
,
Stacey J. Winham1
1
Department of Quantitative Health Sciences, Mayo Clinic College
of Medicine and Science, Rochester, Minnesota, United States of
America, United States of America
With the growing availability of large-scale GWAS summary
statistics across various diseases, there is mounting interest in the
development, validation, and clinical deployment of polygenic
risk scores (PRSs). In addition to autosomes, chrX includes over
800 protein-coding genes and harbors SNP associations with
various autoimmune, cognitive, and behavioral phenotypes.
However, there is a well-established paucity of chrX inclusion
in GWAS. Furthermore, X chromosome inactivation presents
quality control, imputation, and analytical challenges that
may be heterogenously addressed across studies, leading
to potential mismodeling of chrX SNPs or exclusion of chrX
altogether during PRS development. One major concern is
the handling of chrX male dosage encoding. This is further
compounded by the lack of methodology reporting on chrX
SNP analysis and variability in default modeling approaches
of popular association analysis software. Consequently, there
is high risk for differences in male chrX dosage encoding
across development, validation, and target datasets. To
assess the current state of chrX utilization in PRS modeling,
we downloaded all PRS models hosted on The Polygenic
Score Catalog (3503 models on 618 distinct phenotypes as of
04/2023). Only 1052 (30.0%) included chrX SNPs; however,
among those with at least 30 total SNPs, chrX accounted for
a median 5.9% of total SNP weights (interquartile range =
[3.8,7.6]), reflective of proportional genomic content. Despite
its high biological relevance, chrX utilization in published PRS
models remains low. The long-standing heterogeneity in chrX
association analysis throughout the GWAS era may propagate
into PRS model misspecification, although correcting this bias
will improve PRS performance.
83
The Association between rs6859 in NECTIN2 Gene and
Alzheimer’s Disease is Partially Mediated by pTau: New
Findings from ADNI
Aravind Lathika Rajendrakumar1*, Konstantin G. Arbeev1
, Olivia
Bagley1
, Anatoliy I. Yashin1
, Svetlana Ukraintseva1
1
Biodemography of Aging Research Unit, Social Science Research
Institute, Duke University, Durham, North Carolina, 27708‐0408,
United States of America
Emerging evidence suggests a connection between
vulnerability to infections and Alzheimer’s disease (AD).
The  NECTIN2  gene for a membrane component of adherens
junctions is involved in response to viral infections, as well as
in AD. Its SNP rs6859 had been consistently associated with
AD risk in observational studies. It is unclear, however, how
exactly rs6859 influences the development of AD pathology.
The aggregation of hyperphosphorylated tau protein
(pTau) is a key pathological feature of AD, which might be
induced by infections, among other factors, and influenced
by genes involved in AD and vulnerability to infections,
including NECTIN2. Here we investigated causal relationships
between rs6859 in NECTIN2, pTau-181, and AD, in a sample
of 708 participants of the Alzheimer’s Disease Neuroimaging
Initiative (ADNI). We conducted a causal mediation analysis
(CMA) with rs6859 as a “treatment”, pTau-181 levels measured
in the cerebrospinal fluid as a mediator, and AD (yes/no) as an
outcome. Carrying the rs6859 risk allele (A) was associated with
a 7.3% higher probability of AD and 0.15 change per SD of pTau181 (95% CI: 0.046, 0.253; p value<0.01). In CMA, the proportion
of average mediated effect was 17.6%, and 20.0% for the minor
allele homozygotes (AA) (95% CI: 6.8%, 44.0%; p value<0.01).
We conclude that the effect of rs6859 in NECTIN2  on AD is
partly mediated by the phosphorylated Tau. The vulnerability
to infections may play a role in this causal relationship, which
warrants further investigation.
84
Localized Multi-Trait Model: Predicting Disease Risks,
Identifying Variant Associations, and Mapping Trait
Networks
Cue Hyunkyu Lee1
, Atlas Khan2
, Wang Chen1,2, Joseph Buxbaum3
,
Chunhua Weng4
, Krzysztof Kiryluk2
, Iuliana Ionita-Laza1
1
Department of Biostatistics, Columbia University, New York,
New York, United States of America; 2
Department of Medicine, 
Presentation Abstracts Page 33
Columbia University, New York, New York, United States of
America; 3
Department of Psychiatry, Icahn School of Medicine
at Mount Sinai, New York, New York, United States of America;
4
Department of Biomedical Informatics, Columbia University, New
York, New York, United States of America
Traditional genomic analyses like Genome-Wide
Association Studies (GWAS) and Polygenic Risk Scores (PRS)
have been instrumental but are often limited by their reliance
on binary case-control statuses. The use of simple case-control
status may neglect phenotypic heterogeneity and emerge
issues like case-control imbalance. To address these limitations,
we introduce a novel methodology—Liability Threshold-Based
Phenotypic Integration (LTPI).
LTPI aims to improve genomic analyses by leveraging
liability threshold models—which account for the latent
variables behind observed traits—and by integrating multi-trait
phenotypes extracted from Electronic Health Records (EHR).
Using LTPI-based risk score estimates, we conducted a GWAS
with data from the UK Biobank and eMERGE network, focusing
on Chronic Kidney Disease (CKD) and Coronary Artery Disease
(CAD). Our model incorporated 30 binary and 20 continuous
non-target traits and integrated them by leveraging genomewide covariance estimates.
Despite its good prediction accuracy, our GWAS yielded
an elevated False Positive Rate (FPR), mainly inflated by
associations with non-target traits. We observed three distinct
patterns in GWAS analysis: (1) true positives (TPs) influenced by
both target and non-target traits; (2) TPs solely influenced by
target traits; and (3) false positives driven by non-target traits.
Notably, the FPR was well-calibrated for variants unassociated
with any traits.
To enhance specificity, we propose calculating locuslevel disease risk through local genetic covariance estimates.
Simulations confirm that the localized version of LTPI (LTPILocal)
outperforms the global approach (LTPIGlobal) in both predictive
power and resistance to false positives.
85
Evaluating Machine Learning Instrumental Variable
Methods to Estimate Conditional Treatment Effects in
Mendelian Randomization
Marc-André Legault1,2*, Jason Hartford3
, Michael Lu1
, Archer Y.
Yang4
 and Joëlle Pineau1,2
1
Department of Computer Science, McGill University, Montreal,
Canada; 2
Mila, Montreal, Canada; 3
Recursion, Salt Lake City,
United States of America; 4
Department of Mathematics and
Statistics, McGill University, Montreal, Canada
Mendelian randomization (MR) is a method to estimate the
causal effect of an exposure on an outcome in the presence
of unmeasured confounding variables by leveraging the
framework of instrumental variable (IV) estimation. MR is widely
used to predict the effect of interventions on modifiable disease
risk factors and to validate drug targets.
Machine learning IV estimators have been developed
to estimate nonlinear causal relationships in the presence of
statistical interactions. For example, the DeepIV algorithm
uses neural networks to model the instrument-exposure
and exposure-outcome relationships in two distinct stages,
making no additional assumptions about the functional
forms and allowing for effect heterogeneity due to observed
variables (Hartford et al. 2017). However, few of these recent
nonparametric IV estimators have been evaluated in the context
of MR. This is due in part to optimization and implementation
challenges. To bridge this gap, we have developed ml-mr, a
bioinformatics package that implements various nonparametric
IV estimators to enable their use and evaluation in the context
of MR. We also provide a framework for simulation analyses
enabling the head-to-head comparison of different methods.
To assess the precision of these MR estimators, we have
included tools to estimate valid prediction intervals from black
box machine learning models using conformal inference.
Using simulation models, we evaluated the sensitivity of 4
MR estimators to instrument strength, confounding strength,
and sample size. We also report on the possible use of these
methods to estimate conditional treatment effects for drug
target validation in targeted patient populations.
86
Evolutionary Action Analysis of Ultra-rare Genetic Variants
in African-American Men with Prostate Cancer from the All
of Us Research Program
Deyana Lewis1
, Lesley Chapman2
, Kimiko Kriego3
, Victoria
Mgbemena4
, Sabur Badmos5
, Jose Nolazco6
, Panagiotis
Katsonis7
1
Morehouse School of Medicine, Department of Community
Health and Preventive Medicine, Atlanta Georgia, United States
of America; 2
National Cancer Institute, Clinical Genetics Branch,
Rockville, Maryland, United States of America; 3
Baylor College of
Medicine, Department of Molecular and Cellular Biology, Houston,
Texas, United States of America; 4
Prairie View A&M University,
Department of Biology, Prairie View, Texas, United States of
America; 5
 University of Texas at El Paso University, Department of
Biochemistry, El Paso Texas, United States of America; 6
 Harvard
School of Medicine, Department of Urologic Oncology, Boston
Massachusetts, United States of America;7
Baylor College of
Medicine, Department of Molecular & Human Genetics, Houston,
Texas, United States of America
Prostate cancer (PCa) disproportionately affects African
American (AA) men, who have higher incidence and mortality
rates as compared to other ethnic groups. The underlying
reasons for these disparities are not well understood,
although extensive evidence exists implicating an important
genetic component. In this study, we examined the ultra-rare
(singletons) variants in the exomes of AA PCa cases from the All
of Us Research Program using Evolutionary Action (EA) analysis.
It is hypothesized that singleton variants exist randomly in the
human genome that is not associated with PCa. Therefore, this
analysis aims to identify variants, genes, and gene pathways
with more pathogenic singletons than expected by chance,
which are most likely the PCa candidate drivers in these cases.
We studied the recently released All of Us data containing
the exomes of 216 AA PCa cases less than 65 years old using ultrarare singleton variants that were not found in any of the 250,000
healthy individuals in the All of Us dataset. We performed EA
gene pathway analysis which uses sequence homology data
and phylogenetic distances to score each variant between 0
(benign) and 100 (pathogenic). This analysis revealed several
candidate driver genes including key DNA repair genes BRAC2 
Page 34 The 2023 Annual Meeting of the International Genetic Epidemiology Society
(EA>50) and MSH1 (EA=100). Multiple variants of uncertain
significance (VUS) were found in genes and gene pathways
that carried high EA scores. These findings highlight the need
for expanded research to clarify VUS, identify novel genes and
variants contributing to PCa risk, and inform precision therapy
among AA men.
89
A Robust cis-Mendelian Randomization Method with
Application to Drug Target Discovery
Zhaotong Lin1*, Wei Pan1
1
Division of Biostatistics, University of Minnesota, Minneapolis,
Minnesota, United States of America
Mendelian randomization (MR) uses genetic variants as
instrumental variables (IVs) to investigate a causal relationship
between two traits, an exposure and an outcome. Compared to
conventional MR using only independent IVs selected from the
whole genome, cis-MR focuses on a single genomic region using
only cis-SNPs.For example, using cis-pQTLs for each circulating
protein as an exposure for a disease opens an economical
path for drug target discovery. Despite the significance of
such applications, only few methods are robust to (horizontal)
pleiotropy and linkage disequilibrium (LD) of cis-SNPs as IVs. In
this work, we propose a cis-MR method based on constrained
maximum likelihood, called cisMR-cML, which accounts for LD
and (horizontal) pleiotropy in a general likelihood framework. It
is robust to the violation of any of the three valid IV assumptions
with strong theoretical support. We further clarify the severe
but largely neglected consequence of the current practice of
modeling marginal effects, instead of conditional effects, of
SNPs in cis-MR analysis. Numerical studies demonstrated the
advantage of our method over other existing methods. We
applied our method in a drug-target analysis for coronary
artery disease (CAD), including a proteome-wide application, in
which three potential drug targets, PCSK9, COLEC11 and FGFR1,
for CAD were identified.
90
Identification of Epstein-Barr Virus (EBV) Variants in
Different Specimen Types in Nasopharyngeal Carcinoma
(NPC)
Jingtong Liang * 1
, Cheng-Ping Wang * 2
, Wan-Lun Hsu 3
, Kelly
J. Yu 4
, Julia Krushkal 5
, Allan Hildesheim 6
, Yi-Xin Zeng 1
, Xihong
Lin 7
, Miao Xu# 1, Zhiwei Liu#4
1
State Key Laboratory of Oncology in South China, Collaborative
Innovation Center for Cancer Medicine, Guangdong Key
Laboratory of Nasopharyngeal Carcinoma Diagnosis and
Therapy, Sun Yat-sen University Cancer Center, Guangzhou, China;
2
Department of Otolaryngology, National Taiwan University
Hospital and National Taiwan University, College of Medicine,
Taipei, Taiwan; 3
Data Science Center, College of Medicine, Fu-Jen
Catholic University, New Taipei City, Taiwan; 4
Division of Cancer
Epidemiology and Genetics, National Cancer Institute, Rockville,
Maryland, United States of America; 5
Biometric Research Program,
Division of Cancer Treatment and Diagnosis, National Cancer
Institute, Rockville, Maryland; United States of America; 6
Agencia
Costarriciense de Investigaciones Biologicas, San Jose, Costa Rica;
7
Department of Biostatistics, Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public
Health, Boston, Massachusetts
* # Authors contributed equally to this work
Corresponding author: Miao Xu, State Key Laboratory of Oncology
in South China, Collaborative Innovation Center for Cancer
Medicine, Guangdong Key Laboratory of Nasopharyngeal
Carcinoma Diagnosis and Therapy, Sun Yat-sen University Cancer
Center, Guangzhou, China. Email address: xumiao@sysucc.org.cn
Advancements in next-generation sequencing (NGS)
have enabled the complete sequencing of an increasing
number of Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) genomes. Recent studies
have suggested that genetic variants of EBV may contribute
to the unique distribution of EBV-associated cancers, such as
nasopharyngeal carcinoma (NPC). However, current published
studies investigating EBV genetics have primarily relied on
tumor tissue, which limits the ability to evaluate and compare
the distribution of EBV variants in NPC cases and healthy
controls. Since biopsy tissue is unavailable for EBV sequencing
of healthy controls, use of alternative specimens would be
desirable to permit evaluation of EBV genetics in both diseased
and healthy populations. It is unknown, however, whether
alternative specimens can reliably detect EBV variants present
in NPC tumors. To address this limitation, we conducted a study
among a group of well-characterized, histologically confirmed
NPC cases to compare DNA variants of EBV sequences detected
in tumor tissue with those detected in samples from alternative
specimen types collected from the same individuals. Specifically,
we aimed to determine whether the EBV strain present in the
tumor can be successfully identified in alternative specimen
types, such as saliva (the site of EBV shedding during lytic
infection and an easily accessible specimen in epidemiological
studies) and nasopharyngeal swab (reflects EBV DNA presented
in NPC tumor cells in situ) samples.
Our study included 33 newly diagnosed NPC patients, with
whole EBV DNA genomes available from 22 paired tissue/saliva
samples and 16 paired tissue/swab samples, of which 12 had all
three specimen types collected. The whole EBV DNA genomes
were also available for one paired saliva/swab, five tissue
samples only, and one swab sample only. Our results indicate
that samples taken from the same individuals (intra-individual)
were more likely to have the same variant detected compared
to samples from different individuals (inter-individual). The
Kappa statistics for paired samples showed high agreement,
with Cohen’s kappa coefficients of 0.981 for paired tissue/
swab samples and 0.994 for paired tissue/saliva samples. These
findings strongly suggest that EBV variants in NPC tumors can
be reliably detected in nasopharynx swab and saliva samples,
supporting the use of these specimens in studies that compare
NPC cases and healthy controls to understand the role of EBV
variants in NPC pathogenesis.
91
HORNET: Software and methods to perform whole-genome
searches for causal gene networks
Noah Lorincz-Comi, Yihe Yang, Xiaofeng Zhu
Department of Population and Quantitative Health Sciences,
Case Western Reserve University, Cleveland, Ohio, United States of
America
The extent to which genes in disease-associated loci
actually cause disease risk is mostly unknown. Many nonexperimental approaches to investigate causality combine 
Presentation Abstracts Page 35
summary statistics from disease and gene expression (eQTL)
GWAS. However, these approaches may produce incorrect
inferences because of confounding by other genes and
misspecified LD structure. We introduce the HORNET software
to perform robust multivariable Mendelian Randomization
(MR) with variable selection genome-wide using eQTL and
phenotype GWAS summary statistics.
HORNET estimates direct causal effects of gene expression,
constructs gene regulatory networks, performs Bayesian
LD estimation, imputes missing data, and estimates local
disease heritability. We applied HORNET to the 500Kb region
surrounding the APOE gene and Alzheimer’s disease (AD)
using eQTL GWAS from lung tissue (n=515) and AD GWAS data
(n=455k).
Simulations demonstrate that HORNET can provide valid
causal inference across a range of real-world conditions in which
other methods cannot. The software itself is computationally
fast, spending approximately 1 second for every gene tested.
When applied to AD, 5 genes in a 1Mb window around APOE
explained 87.6% of the local AD heritability. APOE, APOC2/4,
and DMPK all had direct causal effects on AD (P-values<5E-5),
whereas PPM1N only caused AD by regulating APOE
(P-value=9.4E-8) and APOC4 (P-value<1E-10).
The HORNET software provides researchers with an
accessible and robust tool for identifying genes with causal
evidence. The software is publicly available and may identify
promising candidate genes for follow-up experimental testing.
92
Integrative Proteogenomic Analyses Identify Circulating
Protein Abundances Associated with the Risk of Type 1
Diabetes
Tianyuan Lu1
, Lei Sun1,2, and Andrew D. Paterson2,3
1
 Department of Statistical Sciences, Faculty of Arts and Science,
University of Toronto, Toronto, Ontario, Canada; 2
 Division of
Biostatistics, Dalla Lana School of Public Health, University of
Toronto, Toronto, Ontario, Canada; 3
 Genetics and Genome
Biology, The Hospital for Sick Children, Toronto, Ontario, Canada
Type 1 diabetes (T1D) is a complex autoimmune disease
with limited preventive measures and treatments. Circulating
proteins are potential candidates for identifying novel
biomarkers and drug targets because they play essential roles
in various biological processes, and their abundances can be
measured and modulated.
Leveraging genome-wide association studies (GWASs) of
T1D (18,942 cases and 501,638 controls of European ancestry)
and circulating protein abundances (10,708 individuals of
European ancestry from the Fenland cohort), we performed
Mendelian randomization (MR) analyses to assess the
associations between 1,565 candidate proteins and the risk of
T1D. We conducted multiple sensitivity analyses, colocalization
analyses, and replications based on a multi-ancestry GWAS of
T1D, as well as proteomics studies in the deCODE cohort and
the UK Biobank. We performed gene expression enrichment
analyses based on GTEx to investigate the tissue(s)-of-origin of
each protein.
After validating MR assumptions and colocalization
evidence, we found that a one SD increase in genetically
predicted circulating abundances of CTSH (OR=1.17; 95%
CI:1.10-1.24), IL27RA (OR=1.13; 95% CI:1.07-1.19), SIRPG
(OR=1.37; 95% CI:1.26-1.49), and PGM1 (OR=1.66; 95% CI:1.40-
1.96) was associated with increased risk of T1D. These findings
were consistently replicated in other cohorts. Furthermore,
expression of the genes for these four proteins was strongly
enriched in whole blood (p<1x10-5). IL27RA expression in
adipose tissues and PGM1 expression in skeletal muscle were
also pronounced. Importantly, CTSH and PGM1 are known drug
targets yet the indications did not include T1D. These findings
warrant further explorations of these proteins in the context of
T1D.
93
Disentangling the Shared Genetic Aetiology of Type 2
Diabetes and Schizophrenia
Ana Luiza Arruda1,2,3, Golam M. Khandaker4
, Andrew P Morris5
,
George Davey Smith4
, Laura M. Huckins6
, Eleftheria Zeggini1,7
1
Institute of Translational Genomics, Helmholtz Munich,
Neuherberg, 85764, Germany; 2
Munich School for Data Science,
Helmholtz Munich, Neuherberg, 85764, Germany; 3
Technical
University of Munich (TUM), School of Medicine, Graduate School
of Experimental Medicine, Munich, 81675, Germany; 4
MRC
Integrative Epidemiology Unit at the University of Bristol, United
Kingdom; 5
Centre for Genetics and Genomics Versus Arthritis,
Centre for Musculoskeletal Research, The University of Manchester,
Manchester, M13 9PT, United Kingdom; 6
Department of Psychiatry,
Yale School of Medicine, New Haven, Connecticut, United States of
America; 7
TUM school of medicine, Technical University Munich
and Klinikum Rechts der Isar, Munich, 81675, Germany
Multimorbidity represents an increasingly important
public health challenge with far-reaching implications for
health management and policy. Mental health and metabolic
diseases have a well-established epidemiological association.
In this study, we investigate the genetic intersection between
type 2 diabetes and schizophrenia. We explore potential
causal relationships between the two co-morbid diseases and
related endophenotypes and find no compelling evidence
to support a causal relationship between type 2 diabetes
and schizophrenia. Our findings show that higher body mass
index has a protective effect against schizophrenia, in contrast
to the well-known risk-increasing effect on type 2 diabetes
susceptibility. We identify robust evidence of colocalization
of association signals for these two conditions at 11 genomic
loci, six of which have opposing directions of effect for type
2 diabetes and schizophrenia. To elucidate these colocalizing
signals, we integrate multi-omics data from bulk and single-cell
gene expression studies, along with functional information.
We identify high-confidence effector genes, and find that
they are enriched for homeostasis and lipid-related pathways.
The top-ranking effector gene is NUS1, which plays a role in
lipid trafficking regulation. Mendelian randomization analysis
suggests that increased expression of NUS1 in the brain is causal
for schizophrenia and protective against type 2 diabetes risk.
Our findings provide insights into the biological mechanisms
common to type 2 diabetes and schizophrenia, shedding light
on the complex nature of this comorbidity.
Page 36 The 2023 Annual Meeting of the International Genetic Epidemiology Society
94
Insights into the Comorbidity between Type 2 Diabetes and
Osteoarthritis
Ana Luiza Arruda,1,2,4 April Hartley,5
 Georgia Katsoula,1,4 George
Davey Smith,5
 Andrew P. Morris,1,6 Eleftheria Zeggini1,3,7
1
Institute of Translational Genomics, Helmholtz Munich,
Neuherberg, Germany; 2
Munich School for Data Science,
Helmholtz Munich, Neuherberg, Germany; 3
TUM school of
medicine, Technical University Munich and Klinikum Rechts der
Isar, Munich, Germany; 4
Technical University of Munich (TUM),
School of Medicine, Graduate School of Experimental Medicine,
Munich, Germany; 5
MRC Integrative Epidemiology Unit, University
of Bristol, Bristol, United Kingdom; 6
Centre for Genetics and
Genomics Versus Arthritis, Centre for Musculoskeletal Research,
The University of Manchester, Manchester, United Kingdom
7
Corresponding author
Multimorbidity is a rising public health challenge with
important implications for health management and policy. The
most common multimorbidity pattern is for the combination
of cardiometabolic and osteoarticular diseases. Here, we study
the genetic underpinning of the comorbidity between type
2 diabetes and osteoarthritis. We find genome-wide genetic
correlation between the two diseases, and robust evidence
for association signal colocalization at 18 genomic regions. We
integrate multi-omics and functional information to resolve
the colocalizing signals, and identify high-confidence effector
genes, including FTO and IRX3, which provide proof-of-concept
insights into the epidemiologic link between obesity and both
diseases. We find enrichment for lipid metabolism and skeletal
formation pathways for signals underpinning the knee and hip
osteoarthritis comorbidities with type 2 diabetes, respectively.
Causal inference analysis identifies complex effects of tissuespecific gene expression on comorbidity outcomes. Our
findings provide insights into the biological basis for the type 2
diabetes-osteoarthritis disease co-occurrence.
95
Inferring the Length Distribution of Gene Conversion Tracts
Nobuaki Masaki1
, Sharon R. Browning1
1
Department of Biostatistics, University of Washington, Seattle,
Washington, United States of America
Recombination is a process in which genetic material is
swapped between homologous chromosomes. Crossovers
result in a long segment (typically spanning millions of base
pairs) from each chromosome being exchanged, whereas noncrossover gene conversions result in a short segment being
copied from one chromosome to the other.
Previous studies have detected these gene conversion
tracts in humans. Williams et al. looked at haplotypes in threegeneration pedigrees in which alleles were descended from the
opposite haplotype of the parent relative to their surrounding
markers (2015). By measuring the span of these alleles and
flanking markers, they also determined lower and upper
bounds for each detected gene conversion tract. However, the
length distribution of gene conversion tracts in humans has not
been studied in very fine detail.
In our study, we devised parametric models to estimate and
provide confidence intervals for the mean tract length with the
kind of data used in Williams et al. (2015). This model assumes
that the length of the true tract follows a known distribution,
but accounts for unobserved copying of alleles during a
gene conversion event due to the sparsity of the SNP array
or homozygosity of the parent. Simulating gene conversion
events, we find that our estimator is unbiased under correct
model specification. We also propose an AIC-based method to
select the form of the true tract length distribution.
96
Smoking-Associated Changes in Gene Expression in
Coronary Artery Disease Patients Using Matched Samples
Mohammed Merzah1
; Szilárd Póliska2
; László Balogh3
; János
Sándor1, 4, István Szász1,4, Shweaye Natae1
 and Szilvia Fiatal1
1
Department of Public Health and Epidemiology, Faculty
of Medicine, University of Debrecen, Debrecen, Hungary;
2
Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, Faculty
of Medicine, University of Debrecen, Hungary; 3
Cardiology and
Cardiac Surgery Clinic, University of Debrecen, Debrecen, Hungary;
4
ELKH-DE Public Health Research Group, Department of Public
Health and Epidemiology, Faculty of Medicine, University of
Debrecen, Hungary
Background: Smoking is a well-known risk factor for
coronary artery disease (CAD). However, the effects of smoking
on gene expression in the blood of CAD patients in Hungary
have not been extensively studied.
Aim: To identify differentially expressed genes associated
with smoking in coronary artery disease (CAD) patients.
Methods: Eleven matched samples based on age and
gender were selected for analysis in this study. All patients were
non-obese, non-alcoholic, non-diabetic, and non-hypertensive
and had moderate-to- severe stenosis of one or more coronary
arteries, confirmed by coronary angiography. Whole blood
samples were collected using PAXgene tubes. Next-generation
sequencing was employed using the NextSeq 500 system to
generate high-throughput sequencing data for transcriptome
profiling. The differentially expressed genes were analyzed
using the R programming language.
Results: The median age of patients was 67 years (range:
54-75). RNA sequencing was performed on two groups:
smokers and non-smokers. After quality control and filtering,
gene expression data were obtained for all samples. Using
DESeq2, we identified 279 differentially expressed genes with
a p value ≤ 0.05 and a log2 fold change ≥1. Of these genes, 160
were upregulated in the smokers, and 119 were downregulated
compared to non-smokers. Gene ontology analysis revealed
that the upregulated genes were enriched for pathways
related to immune responses and activities (FDR< 0.03).
Specifically, upregulated genes were involved in keratinocyte
differentiation, cornification, and epidermis development. The
downregulated genes were enriched for cell-cardiac muscle
cell adhesion (FDR= 0.004) and epithelium development (FDR=
0.001) pathways.
Conclusions: This research sheds light on the complex
biological effects of smoking and provides valuable insights
into the mechanisms underlying smoking-related diseases.
The findings also have implications for personalized medicine,
where patients can be stratified based on their gene expression
profiles to predict their risk of developing smoking-related
diseases and tailor treatment plans accordingly.
Presentation Abstracts Page 37
97
Comparing the Performance of a Tic Disorder Phenotype
Risk Score and Polygenic Score in a Large Clinical Biobank
Tyne W. Miller-Fleming1*, David A. Isaacs2
, Dongmei Yu3,4, Carol
A. Mathews5
, Jeremiah M. Scharf3,4, Lea K. Davis1
1
Division of Genetic Medicine, Vanderbilt Genetics Institute,
Vanderbilt University Medical Center, Nashville, Tennessee,
United States of America; 2
Department of Neurology, Vanderbilt
University Medical Center, Nashville, Tennessee, United States
of America; 3
Center for Genomic Medicine, Department of
Neurology, Massachusetts General Hospital, Harvard Medical
School, Boston, MA, United States of America; 4
Psychiatric and
Neurodevelopmental Genetics Unit, Department of Psychiatry,
Massachusetts General Hospital, Harvard Medical School, Boston,
MA, United States of America; 5
Department of Psychiatry, Genetics
Institute, University of Florida, Gainesville, Florida, United States of
America
The phenotype risk score (PheRS) is a tool for evaluating
comorbidity patterns within a disease of interest based on
a patient’s medical history. We previously generated a tic
disorder (TD) PheRS using 69 phenotypic features enriched
in TD patients, including known comorbidities (OCD, ADHD,
ASD), and several additional neuropsychiatric and neurological
phenotypes.
Here we evaluate the TD PheRS compared to the TD
polygenic score (PGS) in the Vanderbilt University Medical
Center biobank, BioVU. The TD PGS was calculated using PRSCS with summary statistics from the most recently published
TD GWAS. The TD PheRS and PGS were compared within a
subset of clinically validated TD cases (n = 319) and controls
(n = 1,585) using linear regression models (covariates: age,
genetic principal components, sex, diagnosis code density, and
genotype batch).
Both the TD PheRS and PGS are significantly higher in the
subset of clinically validated TD cases versus controls (PheRS
p=< 2e-16, beta=0.13, PGS p= 0.001, beta=0.03); however,
the TD PheRS and PGS were only modestly associated with
one another (p=0.03, beta=0.09). When tested independently,
the prediction performance for the TD PheRS in the clinically
validated cases/controls (Nagelkerke’s Pseudo r2=0.32) is higher
than the TD PGS performance in this same population (r2=0.04).
When we combine the PheRS and PGS using a multivariable
linear regression model, we find that the combined model
modestly improves the prediction value (r2=0.33), suggesting
that clinical history in conjunction with genetic information
may provide the strongest method at identifying individuals at
risk for a tic disorder diagnosis.
99
Underlying Pleiotropic Connections between Alzheimer’s
Disease and Its Comorbidities May Contribute to
Progression
Anni Moore1
, Marylyn D Ritchie1,2,3
1
Genomics and Computational Biology Group, University of
Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, United States of
America; 2
Institute of Biomedical Informatics, University of
Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, United States of
America; Division of Informatics, DBEI, Perelman School of
Medicine., University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania,
United States of America
Alzheimer’s disease (AD) is the most prevalent
neurodegenerative disease worldwide, with one in nine
people over the age of 65 living with disease in 2023. Despite
its prevalence, no effective treatment or single etiologic
driver of AD has been discovered. Over 50% of AD cases are
brought on by a combination of small-effect common genetic
variants, implicated in numerous pathway disruptions that
exacerbate each other to promote disease. One strategy
to gain insight into AD progression is to investigate shared
pleiotropy between AD and other highly co-occurring diseases
to uncover overlapping mechanisms. Here we used the
results of a phenome wide association study (PheWAS) to find
associations between previously associated AD variants with
electronic health record (EHR) diseases from the UK Biobank
(UKBB) from 361,194 individuals of European ancestry. With 633
phenotypes and 1,838 AD variants, we found 114 significant
associations (p<5*10-8), primarily in immune and cardiac
related diseases. 24 AD variants were significantly associated
with intestinal malabsorption (18 occurring within the major
histocompatibility complex (MHC) region). When we removed
variants within the MHC region, chronic ischemic heart disease
was most significantly associated, with 14 AD associated
variants. We will replicate these findings in the Penn Medicine
Biobank (PMBB) (n=43,624 patients) and NIH’s All of Us Biobank
(n=245,000) which has yet to be used for investigation in the
context of AD. Both biobanks contain genotype and EHR data
for all individuals and have higher diverse patient ancestry than
UKBB.
100
Unraveling the Genetic Architecture of Autoimmune
Gastritis and Pernicious Anemia
Brooke M. Morris1*, Austin W. Reynolds1
1
Department of Anthropology, Baylor University, Waco, Texas,
United States of America
Autoimmune gastritis (AIG) is characterized by stomach
inflammation due to autoimmune destruction of parietal
cells, affecting 0.5-2.5% of the US population. Parietal cells,
specialized epithelial cells in the stomach, aid in digestion and
nutrient absorption by secreting hydrochloric acid and intrinsic
factor. AIG leads to multiple disease end-stage phenotypes,
including iron deficiency anemia and pernicious anemia,
and increases the risk of cancers; however, it is unclear why
some patients develop different end stages of the disease
and what risk factors influence this. Pernicious anemia (PA),
one end-stage of AIG, causes malabsorption of vitamin B12, a
micronutrient that helps maintain healthy blood cells, nerves,
DNA synthesis, structural stability, and many other metabolic
processes. Quick diagnosis is crucial to prevent permanent
damage or death; however, a positive diagnosis can be difficult
because of slow progression and non-descript symptoms
that can mask the underlying disease, leaving many patients
undiagnosed or misdiagnosed for 5 – 10 years. To understand
genetic risk factors, we conducted a genome-wide association
study (GWAS) using whole-genome sequence data from 3761
AIG cases, 979 PA cases, and 245,388 controls from the All of Us
research program. Using a statistical fine-mapping approach,
credible sets of putative causal variants associated with AIG 
Page 38 The 2023 Annual Meeting of the International Genetic Epidemiology Society
and PA. were identified. These findings contribute to ongoing
efforts to characterize polygenic and pathway risk scores for
AIG, PA, and other autoimmune diseases, laying the foundation
for future improvements in clinical guidelines, and diagnostic
and therapeutic strategies.
101
Multidimensional Analysis of Pedigree, Epidemiologic, and
Molecular Data to Identify Risk Factors for ME/CFS
R.Moslehi1
*, A. Kumar1
, A. Bhanushali1
, M. Tracy1
, A. Dzutsev2
1
Schoolof Public Health, University at Albany, Albany, New York,
United States of America; 2
National Cancer Institute, National
Institutes of Health, Bethesda, Maryland, United States of America
Background: Myalgic encephalomyelitis (ME) /chronic
fatigue syndrome (CFS) is a complex disabling disorder with
no known etiology or approved treatment. We conducted
a molecular epidemiologic study to identify risk factors and
biologic mechanisms for ME/CFS.
Methods: Our clinic-based case-control study compared
59 ME/CFS patients and 54 healthy controls with respect to the
prevalence of autoimmune disease (AID) and cancer among
their first-degree relatives, prevalence of epidemiologic factors,
and serum levels of 48 cytokines. We used logistic regression
and cumulative incidence analysis to calculate OR,RR,95%CI, p
values, and machine learning approaches to identify a cytokine
profile of ME/CFS.
Results: ME/CFS cases were five times more likely than
controls to have a family history of AID (OR=5.30, P=0.002).
Compared to the relatives of controls, first-degree relatives of
cases had significantly higher life-time risks of AID (RR=3.72,
p=0.0006) and early-onset (diagnosed <60 years of age)
cancer (RR=2.81, p=0.03). Comparison of epidemiologic factors
identified history of allergies requiring medication (OR=6.00,
p<0.0001), exposure to contaminants (OR=4.35, p=0.0002),
history of illness requiring hospitalization (OR=4.33, p=0.0004),
≥4 episodes of significant illness requiring hospitalization
(OR=24.36, p<0.0001) and ≥2episodes of significant stress
(OR=3.07, p=0.03) as risk factors for ME/CFS. We identified
a cytokine profile of ME/CFS, which classified patients
with 84% accuracy (kappa=0.68, p=0.025, sensitivity=0.75,
specificity=1.00) in random forest models.
Conclusions: Findings from our multi-dimensional analysis
of pedigree, epidemiologic, and molecular data suggest certain
risk factors for ME/CFS and links with AID and cancer ,providing
etiologic clues and druggable targets for treatment of ME/CFS.
102
Using Genetics to Explore the Role of BMI as a Shared Risk
Factor in Multimorbidity
Ninon Mounier1
, Bethany Voller1
, Carlos Gallego-Moll2
, Elsie
Tata1
, Albert Roso-Llorach2
, Mary Mancini3
, Leon Farmer3
, Kate
Boddy4
, Sara Khalid5
, Christopher Fox1
, Sarah Lamb1
, David
Melzer1
, Concepción Violán6
, Jane Masoli1,7, João Delgado1
,
Frank Dudbridge8
, Luke Pilling1
, Jack Bowden1,9, Timothy M.
Frayling1
1
Department of Clinical and Biomedical Sciences, University
of Exeter Medical School, University of Exeter, Exeter, United
Kingdom; 2
Fundació Institut Universitari per a la recerca a l’Atenció
Primària de Salut Jordi Gol I Gurina (IDIAPJGol), Barcelona, Spain;
3
Patient and Public Involvement Advisor, University of Exeter
Medical School, University of Exeter, Exeter, United Kingdom;
4
Patient and Public Involvement Team, NIHR ARC South West
Peninsula (PenARC), University of Exeter, United Kingdom;
5
Nuffield Department of Orthopaedics, Rheumatology and
Musculoskeletal Sciences (NDORMS), University of Oxford, Oxford,
United Kingdom; 6
Fundació Institut Universitari per a la recerca a
l’Atenció Primària de Salut Jordi Gol I Gurina (IDIAPJGol), Unitat
de Suport a la Recerca Metropolitana Nord, Mataró, Spain; 7
Royal
Devon University Healthcare NHS Foundation Trust, Healthcare for
Older People, Exeter, United Kingdom; 8
Department of Population
Health Sciences, University of Leicester, Leicester, United Kingdom;
9
Novo Nordisk Research Centre Oxford, Department of Genetics,
Oxford, United Kingdom
Multimorbidity, the co-occurrence of multiple long-term
conditions (LTCs), has become an increasingly important area
of research in aging populations. Observational studies have
already highlighted the importance of obesity as a risk factor in
multimorbidity. In this work, we use genetics to quantify shared
genetics between pairs of LTCs and investigate the role of body
mass index (BMI) in the co-occurrence of 71 LTCs.
We identified LTCs using an established classification of
multimorbidity. We meta-analyzed genetic data from up to
three sources (UK Biobank, FinnGen, disease-specific GWAS)
and used LD-score regression to estimate pairwise genetic
correlations. We used GenomicSEM to quantify the contribution
of BMI to the genetic correlation between each pair of LTCs and
applied a block-jackknife approach to assess the significance of
the attenuation when adjusting for BMI genetics.
We found evidence of widespread shared genetics amongst
pairs of LTCs and identified 128 pairs with significant genetic
correlation attenuation after adjusting for BMI genetics (q value
< 0.05). For example, we observed a two-fold reduction for the
genetic correlation between sleep apnoea and hypertension
(rG=0.41, rG-adjusted=0.19, attenuation q-value=2e-11),
the genetic correlation between osteoarthritis and Type 2
diabetes was entirely explained by BMI genetics (rG=0.22, rGadjusted=-0.01, attenuation q-value=5e-17) but we did not see
any attenuation for the genetic correlation between asthma
and depression (rG=0.31, rG-adjusted=0.29, attenuation
q-value=0.47).
While these results confirmed the role of BMI as a shared
risk factor for several pairs of LTCs, most of the genetic
correlations remained significant after adjustment, suggesting
shared causal pathways beyond BMI.
103
Impact of Genetic Variations in ACE2 and TMPRSS2 Genes
on SARS-CoV-2 Infectivity and COVID-19 Disease Variability
Among Bangladeshi Population
Md. Mustafizur Rahman1*, Faria Akter1
, Shrabani Ghosh1
, Sabrina
Momtaz1
, Amir Hossain2
, Md. Abdul Mazid3
1
Khulna University, Khulna, Bangladesh, 2
Dhaka International
University, Dhaka, Bangladesh, 3
University of Dhaka, Dhaka,
Bangladesh
*Presenting Author: dipti0103@yahoo.com
Background: SARS‐CoV‐2 uses host cellular angiotensinconverting enzyme 2 (ACE2) as receptor. Viral S protein binds
to ACE2 receptor while host cellular transmembrane serine 
Presentation Abstracts Page 39
protease 2 (TMPRSS2) cleaves the bound S protein facilitating
SARS-CoV-2 entry into host cells. Epidemiological findings
highlight that COVID-19 affects different people in different
ways and the disease outcomes range from mild malaise to
death by sepsis/acute respiratory distress syndrome. This study
aims to investigate the association of ACE2 gene (rs2106809
C/T) polymorphism and TMPRSS2 V160M (rs12329760)
polymorphism with SARS-CoV-2 infectivity and COVID-19
disease severity among Bangladeshi population.
Methods: The study included 119 SARS-CoV-2 infected
(cases) and 104 age- and sex- matched uninfected individuals
(controls). Genomic DNAs were extracted from collected
peripheral blood using standard protocol and genotyped for
the candidate SNPs using PCR–RFLP method.
Results: For TMPRSS2 V160M heterozygous C/T, variant
homozygous T/T and combined heterozygous plus variant
homozygous (C/T + T/T) genotypes showed 0.20-fold (p<0.0001),
0.43-fold ( p= 0.0194), and 0.27-fold (p <0.0001) decreased risk of
SARS-CoV-2 infection, respectively, when compared to normal
homozygous C/C genotypes. The variant T allele was associated
with 0.561-fold decrease (p=0.0028). Similarly, for ACE2 C/T
rs2106809 SNP located on X-chromosome, variant C allele
exhibited association with 11.03-fold (p<0.0001) increased risk
of SARS-CoV-2 infection in male population when compared
with normal C allele carriers. However, for females we did not
find statistically significant association with heterozygous (C/C)
or variant homozygous (T/T) genotypes.
Conclusion: ACE2 C/T rs2106809 and TMPRSS2 V160M
polymorphisms may be associated with SARS-CoV-2 infectivity
in our studied populations.
Key words: SARS‐CoV‐2; ACE2; TMPRSS2; rs2106809;
rs12329760.
104
Genetic and Medical Correlates of Long-term Buprenorphine
Treatment: A Study in the Electronic Health Records
Maria Niarchou, PhD1
, Sandra Sanchez-Roige, PhD2,3, India A.
Reddy, MD, PhD5
, Thomas J. Reese, PhD4
, David Marcovitz, MD5
,
Lea K. Davis, PhD1,3,4,6
1
Vanderbilt Genetics Institute, Vanderbilt University Medical
Center, United States of America; 2
Department of Psychiatry,
University of California San Diego, California, United States of
America; 3
Division of Genetic Medicine, Department of Medicine,
Vanderbilt University Medical Center; United States of America;
4
Department of Biomedical Informatics, Vanderbilt University
Medical Center, United States of America; 5
Department of
Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences, Vanderbilt University Medical
Center, United States of America; 6
Department of Molecular
Physiology and Biophysics, Vanderbilt University
Despite the benefits associated with longer buprenorphine
treatment duration (i.e., >180 days) (BTD) for opioid use disorder
(OUD), retention remains poor. Research on the impact of cooccurring psychiatric issues on BTD has yielded mixed results.
It is unknown whether genetic risk in the form of polygenic
scores (PGS) for OUD and other comorbid conditions, including
problematic alcohol use (PAU) are associated with BTD. We
tested the association between somatic and psychiatric
comorbidities and long BTD and determined whether PGS for
OUD-related conditions were associated with BTD. The study
included 6,686 individuals with buprenorphine prescription
that lasted for less than six months and 1,282 individuals with
buprenorphine prescription that lasted for at least six months.
Recorded diagnosis of substance addiction and disorders (Odds
Ratio (95% CI) = 22.14 (21.88 to 22.41), p = 2.8 x 10-116), tobacco
use disorder (OR(95% CI)=23.4 (23.13 to 23.68), p = 4.5 x 10-
111), and bipolar disorder (OR(95% CI)=9.70 (9.48 to 9.92), p =
1.3 x 10-91), were associated with longer BTD. The PGS of OUD
and several OUD co-morbid conditions, were associated with
any buprenorphine prescription. A higher PGS for OUD (OR
per SD increase in PGS (95%CI)=1.43(1.16 to 1.77), p =0.0009),
loneliness (OR(95%CI)=1.39(1.13 to 1.72), p =0.002), PAU
(OR(95%CI)=1.47(1.19 to 1.83), p =0.0004), and externalizing
disorders (OR(95%CI) =1.52(1.23 to 1.89), p =0.0001) was
significantly associated with longer BTD. Longer BTD is
associated with diagnoses of psychiatric and somatic conditions
in the EHR, as is the genetic score for OUD, loneliness, PAU and
externalizing disorders.
105
A Novel Computational Paradigm for Cost-efficient and
Massively Parallel Analysis of Thousands of Genomic
Models
Jeffrey R. O’Connell1
1
University of Maryland School of Medicine, Baltimore, Maryland,
United States of America
Biobanks such as TOPMed and All of Us (AoU) are generating
phenotype, whole-genome sequence (WGS) and omics data
on ever larger sample sizes. Analysis of big data is becoming
increasingly cloud-dependent, as downloading petabytes of
individual level data for local compute is not possible due to
cost or permission. The price-tag of cloud compute is becoming
a major barrier for researchers seeking to exploit the thousands
of potential models in the data to understand biological
mechanism.
Although these thousands of models will have some
variables (outcome, predictor) in common, our current
paradigm of one-model-one-GWAS is forced to recompute
the same regression quantities shared between models, thus,
incurring the excessive cost of redundant compute.
We have developed a novel compute paradigm that
solves the redundant compute problem by combining all
model variables into a universal model, then constructing an
indexed binary format pre-compute regression core (PCRC)
that contains the regression cross-products between variables
in the universal model. The PCRC can then be used to build any
model on-demand with zero redundant compute. The PCRC
can also be extended to handle mixed models with genetic
correlation. The cost to build the PCRC is approximately a GWAS
with the universal model, but then the cost of any on-demand
model scales only with the number of covariates as the sample
size cost has been eliminated. Moreover, we have developed a
new mixed model approximation and genotype storage format
to significantly increase GWAS speed. Extensive benchmarking
of this transformative paradigm will be presented.
Page 40 The 2023 Annual Meeting of the International Genetic Epidemiology Society
106
Statistical Approach Leveraging Founder Population
Genealogy and Identical by Descent Segments to Identify
Rare Variants in Complex Diseases
Samir Oubninte1,2*, Simon Girard2,3, Claudia Moreau3
, Alexandre
Bureau1,2
1
Départementde Médecine Socialeet Préventive, Université Laval,
Québec City, Québec, Canada; 2
Centre derecherche CERVO, Québec
City, Québec, Canada; 3
Départementdes sciences fondamentales,
Université du Québec à Chicoutimi, Canada
The missing heritability caused by rare variants (RVs)
poses a big challenge to pre-established statistical methods.
Our study aims at detecting RVs using identical-by-descent
segments (IBDS) as a proxy for recent variants in family data
from a founder population whose genealogy is available, the
distinguishing features of our approach. Inferring IBDS from
genotype array data is more accessible than whole-genome
sequences and enables application to large sample sizes.
Our approach involves dividing the genome into fixedlength windows, treating each window as a synthetic gene
(SG),then identifying groups of affected individuals sharing a
specific IBD segment over a SG by analyzing genotype array
data to infer pairwise IBDS (PSIBD). PSIBD data is then used to
identify densely connected haplotypes as IBD clusters via Dash.
Lastly, we adapt, implement and evaluate statistics to test for
SG sharing enrichment among affected individuals. The null
distribution of the genome-wide maximal value of statistics
is obtained by simulation of whole-genome transmission in a
genealogy using msprime.
For the sake of application, Eastern Quebec has been
studied as an example of population with a founder effect.
Using BALSAC database to reconstruct the genealogy of
1,200 subjects across 48 schizophrenia and bipolar disorder
multigenerational families led to an 18-generation pedigree
with 84% completeness at the 10thgeneration.
Simulations studies realized by msprime in the genealogy
support our approach. 𝑆𝑀𝐺 for the “most represented SG”
has greater power to detect causal SGs compared to alternative
methods like GMMAT (generalized linear mixed model
association test) applied to IBDS.
107
A Genome-wide Association Study of the Three Complement
System Activation Pathways Implicates Causal Biological
and Pathological Mechanisms
Pattaro Cristian1
, Noce Damia1,2, Foco Luisa1
, Orth-Höller
Dorothea2,3, König Eva1
, Barbieri Giulia1,4, Pietzner Maik5,6,
Coassin Stefan7
, Fuchsberger Christian1
, Gögele Martin1
, Del
Greco M Fabiola1
, De Grandi Alessandro1
, Summerer Monika7
,
Wheeler Eleanor6
, Langenberg Claudia5
, Lass-Flörl Cornelia2
,
Pramstaller Peter P1
, Kronenberg Florian7
, Würzner Reinhard2
1
Institute for Biomedicine (affiliated to the University of
Lübeck), Eurac Research, Via Volta 21, 39100 Bolzano, Italy;
2
Institute of Hygiene & Medical Microbiology, Department of
Hygiene, Microbiology and Public Health, Medical University of
Innsbruck, Schöpfstr. 41, A-6020 Innsbruck, Austria; 3
MB-LAB –
Clinical Microbiology Laboratory, Franz-Fischer-Str. 7b, A-6020
Innsbruck, Austria; 4
Department of Neurosciences, Biomedicine
and Movement Sciences, University of Verona, Verona, Italy;
5
Computational Medicine, Berlin Institute of Health (BIH) at Charité
– Universitätsmedizin Berlin, Germany; 6
MRC Epidemiology Unit,
University of Cambridge, Cambridge, United Kingdom; 7
Institute of
Genetic Epidemiology, Medical University of Innsbruck, Schöpfstr.
41, A-6020 Innsbruck, Austria
Alterations of the complement system (CS), which is
a fundamental part of the innate immune response, are
associated with both rare and common human diseases.
The CS is activated via three distinct pathways: classical (CP),
mannose-binding lectin (LP), and alternative (AP) pathways. No
hypothesis-free genome-wide screen of the three CS pathways
has been conducted so far. We conducted genome-wide
association studies of the functional activity of CP, LP, and AP in
the Cooperative Health Research in South Tyrol (CHRIS) study
(n=4,990). We identified seven loci, including 13 independent
and pathway-specific variants (p<5×10-8) located in or near
CFHR4, C7, C2, and MBL2 (known CS genes) and PDE3A,
TNXB, and ABO (novel genes). Variants were associated with
inflammatory, autoimmune, and coagulation disorders and
>400 proteins. We conducted transcriptome- and proteomewide colocalization analyses based on state-of-the-art datasets,
in combination with two-sample Mendelian randomization
analysis. We identified three types of results: (1) confirmation
of known causal pathways (e.g.: causal role of MBL2 on LP);
(2) identification of within-CS feedback loops (e.g.: between
AP and complement 7); and (3) identification of novel causal
pathways, including: the causal role of ABO protein levels on LP
(p value=1.1×10-10; MR-Egger intercept not significant); a causal
effect of LP on collectin-11 ( p value=6.3×10-44; heterogeneity p
value, Phet=0.46) and KAAG1 (p value=9.0×10-25; Phet=0.27) levels;
a causal effect of LP on mouth ulcers’ risk (p value=9.5×10-6;
Phet=0.71). These results depict a first, comprehensive and
unbiased map of the role of CS on human health.
109
Identifying Pleiotropy underlying Comorbid Phenotypes
Using Binomial Regression
Prasun Panja1,2, Samsiddhi Bhattacharjee2
1
Regional Centre for Biotechnology, Faridabad, India; 2
National
Institute of Biomedical Genomics, Kalyani
The models suggested in Multiphen and BAMP provide
an alternative to study population based genetic association
with multivariate phenotypes by exploring the dependence
of enotype on phenotype instead of the naturally arising
dependence of phenotype on genotype. However, these
approaches test the null hypothesis of no association with
any of the constituent traits versus the alternative hypothesis
of association with at least one of the constituent traits of the
multivariate phenotype vector. Thus, such tests do not provide
evidence of pleiotropy or common genetic factors underlying all
the traits constituting the multivariate phenotype, which might
be correlated. With respect to a pair of comorbid phenotypes
(both binary, a combination of binary and quantitative or both
quantitative), we aim to modify the proposed BAMP (Binomial
regression based Association of Multivariate Phenotypes)
approach to test the null hypothesis of no association with at
least one of the phenotypes versus the alternative hypothesis
with both the phenotypes. Identifying the pleiotropy of two
diseases is important to decipher the underlying molecular 
Presentation Abstracts Page 41
events of two correlated phenotypes. Likelihood ratio test
(LRT) will be used for this purpose. Proposed method can also
differentiate between mediated pleiotropy and horizontal
pleiotropy.
Extensive simulations would be done for different values
of correlation coefficients between the two comorbid traits to
identify the power of the test and to compare the power of the
same model which has used multiple testing correction instead
of considering a multivariate phenotype vector.
110
Using Different Analytic Approaches to Identify Genetic
Overlap of Idiopathic Pulmonary Fibrosis and Hypertension
Gina Parcesepe1,2*, Richard J Allen1,2, Beatriz Guillen-Guio1,2,
Samuel Moss3
, R Gisli Jenkins3
, Louise V Wain1,2 on behalf of the
DEMISTIFI consortium, Ruby M Woodward1
1
Department of Population Health Sciences, University of Leicester,
Leicester, United Kingdom; 2
NIHR Leicester Biomedical Research
Centre, Leicester, United Kingdom; 3
Margaret Turner Warwick
Centre for Fibrosing Lung Disease, National Heart and Lung
Institute, Imperial College London, London, United Kingdom
Up to 50% of individuals with idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis
(IPF) have co-morbid hypertension. High blood pressure
can lead to organ fibrosis or can be a consequence of artery
stiffening due to fibrosis. Studies have implicated common
processes, such as TGF-β signaling, in both traits’ regulation.
Our goal is to identify shared genetic risk factors for IPF and
hypertension using genome-wide and local approaches.
The largest available genome-wide association studies (GWAS)
of IPF, and systolic and diastolic blood pressure (SBP and DBP,
respectively), were utilized to examine both genome-wide and
locus-specific overlap. LD Score Regression was used to conduct
genome-wide correlation. Two genetic correlation approaches,
LOcal Genetic cOrrelation Dectector (LOGODetect) and Local
Analysis of [co]Variant Association (LAVA), were used to identify
specific regions of genetic correlation. Colocalisation analysis,
using coloc, was applied for any signals present at p<1x10-5 in
both IPF, and SBP or DBP.
There was no genome-wide correlation between IPF
and SBP -0.077 (p=0.022) or DBP -0.027 (p=0.427). Neither of
the local genetic correlation approaches identified regions of
association. The colocalisation analysis identified seven regions
of shared overlap (posterior probability >80%), two increased
risk of both IPF and hypertension, whilst five had opposite
directions of effect.
These findings support that there may be shared fibrotic
mechanisms between IPF and hypertension. The opposite
effects of variants at specific loci highlight the need for caution
when considering therapeutic targeting of these shared
pathways for either disease. The statistical power was affected,
due to a significant difference in sample size.
111
Testing for Differences in Hardy-Weinberg Disequilibrium
between Groups
Andrew D. Paterson1,2*, Elika Garg1
, Jaffa Romain2
, Lei. Sun2
1
Hospital for Sick Children, Toronto, Ontario, Canada,  2
University
of Toronto, Toronto, Ontario, Canada
Testing for deviation from HWE (Hardy-Weinberg
Equilibrium) is a standard quality control approach before
conducting genetic analyses. However, deviation from HWE can
be caused either by technical biases or violation of numerous
assumptions related to population structure. Therefore,
assessing HWE differences between groups is important. In our
pilot work, we assessed HWE across four super-populations and
two sex groups using the Illumina 2.5M array data for 773k SNPs
with MAF>5% in 1,604 individuals from the 1000 Genomes
Project phase 3 data (doi.org/10.1101/078600). Further, we
combined group results by using inverse-variance and secondorder meta-analysis. Additionally, we compared group results
using Cochran’s Q to test for variability among the groups.
We identified 26 autosomal SNPs in all super-populations
with significant HWE (p value<E-8) in one or more superpopulation or sex groups, and further with heterogeneity in
effect sizes (delta) between ancestry- or sex-based groups.
The most common basis for heterogeneity was evidence for
deviation in males, but not in females. BLAST of the sequence
around such SNPs typically identified similarity to the recently
released Telomere-to-Telomere (T2T) Y chromosome sequence,
which contains ~30Mb of sequence missing from previous
references of the human genome, implying that these variants
are paralogous sequence variants (PSV). We will implement a
similar analysis using the T2T (telomere-to-telomere v2) aligned
high-coverage 1000 Genomes Project whole genome sequence
data. We hypothesize that the T2T data will have less technical
biases, and thus allow us to better investigate heterogeneity
across groups arising due to population structure.
112
Multi-omics Reveal Key Molecular Signatures of Severe
Obesity
Lauren E. Petty1,2, Hung-Hsin Chen1,2, Priya Sharma3
, Hannah
G. Polikowsky1,2, Jungkyun Seo3
, Mohammad Yaser Anwar3
,
Daeeun Kim3
, Mariaelisa Graff3
, Kristin L. Young3
, Wanying
Zhu1,2, Kalypso Karastergiou4,5, Douglas M. Shaw1,2, Anne E.
Justice6
, Lindsay Fernández-Rhodes7
, Mohanraj Krishnan3
,
Absalon Gutierrez8
, Peter McCormick9
, Penny Gordon-Larsen10,
Miryoung Lee11, Heather M. Highland3
, Eric R Gamazon1,2,12,
Nancy J. Cox1,2, Susan K. Fried4,5, Susan P. Fisher-Hoch11, Joseph
B. McCormick11, Kari E. North3
, Jennifer E. Below1,2
1
Department of Medicine, Division of Genetic Medicine, Vanderbilt
University School of Medicine, Nashville, Tennessee, United
States of America; 2
Vanderbilt Genetics Institute, Vanderbilt
University Medical Center, Nashville, Tennessee, United States
of America; 3
Department of Epidemiology, University of North
Carolina at Chapel Hill, Chapel Hill, North Carolina, United States
of America; 4
Obesity Research Center, Boston University School
of Medicine, Boston, MA, United States of America; 5
Diabetes
Obesity and Metabolism Institute, Icahn School of Medicine at
Mount Sinai, New York, New York, United States of America;
6
Department of Population Health Services, Geisinger Health,
Danville, Pennsylvania, United States of America; 7
Department of
Biobehavioral Health, The Pennsylvania State University, University
Park, Pennsylvania, United States of America; 8
Department
of Internal Medicine, Division of Endocrinology, Diabetes and
Metabolism, The University of Texas Health Science Center,
Houston, TX, United States of America; 9
Centre for Endocrinology, 
Page 42 The 2023 Annual Meeting of the International Genetic Epidemiology Society
William Harvey Research Institute, Barts and the London School
of Medicine, Queen Mary, University of London, Charterhouse
Square, London, United Kingdom; 10Department of Nutrition,
Gillings School of Global Public Health, University of North
Carolina at Chapel Hill, Chapel Hill, North Carolina, United States
of America; 11Department of Epidemiology, Human Genetics and
Environmental Sciences, The University of Texas Health Science
Center at Houston School of Public Health, Brownsville Regional
Campus, Brownsville, TX, United States of America; 12MRC
Epidemiology Unit, University of Cambridge, Cambridge, United
Kingdom
Severe obesity [body mass index (BMI) ≥ 40 kg/m2
] is a driver
of many cardiometabolic diseases, and disproportionately
impacts marginalized populations, including Hispanic/
Latino populations, yet we know little about its underlying
mechanistic pathways. We deployed integrative multi-omics
approaches to enable discovery of genes involved in severe
obesity in Mexican-Americans from the Cameron County
Hispanic Cohort (CCHC). First, using RNA-sequencing data
for 49 severe obesity cases and 81 controls from CCHC, we
used DESeq2 to assess differential expression and performed
Mendelian randomization to estimate causality. We then used
RNA-sequencing data for an additional 52 cases and 59 controls
from CCHC to assess replication. We tested for validation of
our transcriptomic results using proteomic data for 49 cases
and 42 controls from the CCHC and explored the specificity
of detected effects by leveraging independent abdominal
subcutaneous adipose tissue gene expression data from 19
community volunteers from New York City, New York.
We identified 124 significantly differentially expressed
genes after false discovery rate correction, of which 33%
replicated in the independent sample from the same
population, and 22% of those measured showed differential
protein abundance associated with severe obesity. Twenty-six
of the differentially expressed genes showed correlation with
BMI in abdominal subcutaneous adipose tissue in a diverse
independent sample. We provide compelling evidence for
genes whose expression is associated with severe obesity
in an underrepresented and disproportionately impacted
population, observing highly concordant effects in an
independent replication, generalization of effects in abdominal
subcutaneous adipose with BMI, and translation effects in the
proteome.
113
Using Mendelian Randomization to Establish Directionality
of Relationships between Fibroids and Associated
Genitourinary and Neoplasm Phecodes
Jacqueline A. Piekos,1-3 Hannah M. Seagle,1,4 Jacklyn N.
Hellwege,1,5 Nikhil K. Khankari,1,6 Todd L. Edwards,1,4 and Digna
R. Velez Edwards2,3
1
Vanderbilt Genetics Institute, Vanderbilt University Medical
Center, Nashville, Tennessee, United States of America;
2
Department of Biomedical Informatics, Vanderbilt University
Medical Center, Nashville, Tennessee, United States of America;
3
Division of Quantitative Science, Department of Obstetrics and
Gynecology, Vanderbilt University Medical Center, Nashville,
Tennessee, United States of America; 4
Division of Epidemiology,
Department of Medicine, Vanderbilt University Medical Center,
Nashville, Tennessee, United States of America; 5
Department
of Medicine, Vanderbilt University Medical Center, Nashville,
Tennessee, United States of America; 6
Division of Genetic Medicine,
Department of Medicine, Vanderbilt University Medical Center,
Nashville, Tennessee, United States of America
Uterine fibroids (UF) are the most common pelvic tumor
in women, yet etiology and downstream health effects of UF
are unknown. Here we seek to characterize the causes and
consequences of phenotypes associated with UF, focusing
on genitourinary and neoplasm category phenotypes. From a
UF phenome-wide association study, we identified 24 and 28
unrelated phecodes in genitourinary and neoplasm categories
respectively, to be associated with UF. We investigated
directionality of relationship between UF and associated
phecodes using two sample Mendelian randomization (MR). MR
instruments were selected by linkage disequilibrium clumping
genome-wide significant variants using an r2
 threshold = 0.01.
Instruments for UF were selected from FinnGen and tested
phecode genetic instruments were selected from UKBioBank.
With UF as exposure, 10 genitourinary and 12 neoplasm
phecodes were significant consequences of UF (p value < 0.05).
The top phenotypes identified as consequences of genetic UF
exposure were endometriosis OR=1.30 (95% CI=1.22 – 1.38, p
value=3.05x10-17), ovarian cysts OR=1.20 (95% CI=1.14 – 1.26,
p value=1.81x10-12), lipoma OR=1.16 (95% CI=1.10 - 1.22,
p value=1.01x10-7), and benign neoplasm of skin OR=1.12
(95% CI=1.07 – 1.16, p value=1.19x10-7). Two genitourinary
phenotypes were found to be causal towards UF with MR:
hemangioma and lymphangioma OR=1.15 (95% CI: 1.10 –
1.21, p value=1.86x10-10) and polyp of female genital organs
OR=1.34 (95% CI=1.11 – 1.60, p value=0.002). Understanding
the directionality of the relationships between UF and
phenotypes may provide insights into possible UF risk factors
and downstream consequences of UF which can be leveraged
for prioritized UF intervention or prevent downstream
consequences.
114
Shared Genetic Architecture and Pleiotropy across Uterine
Fibroids and Hypertension
Alexis T. Pigg Akerele 1,2,5,7, Jacklyn N. Hellwege 3,7, Jacqueline A.
Piekos, Nikhil K. Khankari 3,7, Todd L. Edwards 4,7, Digna R. Velez
Edwards 5,6,7
1
School of Graduate Studies, 2
Department of Microbiology,
Immunology and Physiology, Meharry Medical College, 3
Division
of Genetic Medicine, Department of Medicine, 4
Division of
Epidemiology, Department of Medicine; 5
Division of Quantitative
Science, Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology; 6
Department
of Biomedical Informatics, Data Science Institute; 7
Vanderbilt
Genetics Institute, Vanderbilt University Medical Center, Nashville,
Tennessee, United States of America
Uterine fibroids (UF) are among the most common
gynecologic diseases in females of reproductive age, having
an estimated cumulative prevalence of 70%. There is a need
to better understand the genetic liability of risk for UF and
risk factors, like hypertension (HTN). In efforts to understand
causal relationships between UF and HTN, we conducted a bidirectional two sample Mendelian randomization (MR) analysis
and evaluated the genetic correlations across blood pressure 
Presentation Abstracts Page 43
(BP) trait loci and UF. We used data from two cross ancestry
genome wide association study (GWAS) meta-analyses, one
of UF (44,205 cases and 356,552 controls), and another of BP
phenotypes (including diastolic BP [DBP], systolic BP [SBP], and
pulse pressure [PP], n=447,758). Linkage disequilibrium score
regression (LDSC) was used to evaluate genetic heritability and
correlation of BP phenotypes and UF. Genetic instruments for
the MR analysis were selected from summary level data of BP
traits and UF by linkage disequilibrium clumping of genome
wide significant SNP’s (p<5e-8) with an r2
 threshold of 0.1. LDSC
results indicated a positive genetic correlation between DBP
and UF (0.140, p=0.0004), and SBP and UF (0.076, p=0.016), and
PP and UF (0.008, p>0.05). MR using BP traits as exposures and
UF as the outcome showed that DBP and pulse pressure both
increase risk for UF (b=0.024, p=0.002 and b=-0.010, p=0.0008,
respectively). Having UF as the exposure and BP traits as the
outcomes indicated a relationship between UF and DBP and UF
and PP (b=0.46, p=0.005 and b=-0.51, p=0.015, respectively).
115
Characterizing Substructure via Mixture Modeling in Largescale Summary Statistics
Adelle Price1,4, Hayley R Stoneman1,2, Nikole Scribner Trout1,4,
Kristy Crooks3
, Nicholas Rafaels3
, Nikita Pozdeyev3
, Souha
Tifour1,4, Katie M Marker1,2,3, Christopher R Gignoux1,2,3, Audrey
E Hendricks1,2,3,4
1
Department of Biomedical Informatics, University of Colorado
Anschutz Medical Campus, Aurora, Colorado, United States of
America; 2
Human Medical Genetics and Genomics Program,
University of Colorado Anschutz Medical Campus, Aurora,
Colorado, United States of America; 3
Colorado Center for
Personalized Medicine, University of Colorado Anschutz
Medical Campus, Aurora, Colorado, United States of America;
4
Mathematical and Statistical Sciences, University of Colorado
Denver, Denver, Colorado, United States of America
Genetic summary data are broadly accessible and highly
useful. Nevertheless, collapsing individual-level data into
groups masks intra- and inter-sample substructure (e.g.,
population structure), biasing results. To address this, we
developed Summix v2, a Bioconductor software suite to
estimate and adjust for substructure in summary level data via
a computationally efficient mixture model. We benchmarked
Summix v2 with extensive simulations and application to
real data. For finer-scale ancestry detection, we find median
accuracy over reference groups is high (>99%) and minimum
accuracy decreases as reference group similarity increases (i.e.,
decreases): 97% for =.009; 89% for =.005. We achieve precise
and accurate local-ancestry proportion estimates (≥ 99%)
using ≥250 variants. We develop a statistical test for regions
of ancestry deviation, which maintains 5% type I error and
achieves 92% power to detect 400kb regions with 5% difference
in local vs global ancestry. In gnomAD v3.1.2, we replicated
selection signatures in HLA (African-American, FDR=6.5x10-11;
Latinx, FDR=6.68x10-9) and 1p33/CYP4A11, a candidate gene in
pharmacogenomics (Latinx, FDR=9.63x10-6). At genome-wide
significance, we identified dozens of candidate loci containing
genes relevant to innate immune response and multiple
cancers. Finally, to highlight ability to identify non-ancestry
substructure, we used 146 previously associated prostate
cancer variants to estimate genetic risk in CCPM biobank
summary data reproducing observed case proportions for ≥60
years and identifying yet to be realized risk for 40-60 and ≤40
years. Summix v2 enables a breadth of substructure estimation
improving data harmonization and ultimately increasing the
robust use of publicly available summary data.
116
Analysis Approaches for Understanding Cross Trait Effects
of VRK2 in Speech, Language, and Rhythm Phenotypes 1
Dillon Pruett, 2
Alyssa Scartozzi, 2
Jaclyn Eissman, 1
Yasmina
Mekki, 2
Hannah Polikowsky, 2
Ting-Chen Wang, 2
Xavier Bledsoe, 3
Shelly Jo Kraft, 1
Eric Gamazon, 1
Logan Dumitrescu, 1
Timothy
Hohman, 1
Reyna Gordon, & 1
Jennifer Below 1
Vanderbilt Genetics Institute, Vanderbilt University Medical
Center, Nashville, Tennessee, United States of America; 2
Human
Genetics Program, Vanderbilt University, Nashville, Tennessee,
United States of America; 3
Dept. of Speech Language Pathology
& Audiology, Wayne State University, Detroit, MI, United States of
America
Stuttering is a neurological speech condition with unknown
etiology. Familial and population-based studies show strong
genetic influences on stuttering risk. Ancestries- and sex-specific
GWAS of stuttering (n = 99,776 cases) identified significant
effects of VRK2 in the European-male cohort, a gene previously
implicated in schizophrenia. VRK2 was also identified in a GWAS
investigating musical beat synchronization and language
decline in Alzheimer’s Disease (AD). Rhythm perception and
language are known factors associated with stuttering. Here,
we investigate the association of genetic variation in VRK2 with
speech, language, and musicality.
Sentinel SNPs mapping to VRK2 varied across studies:
rs11898834 (p = 9.990 × 10-10) in female AD-related language
decline GWAS; rs35609938 (p = 5.84 × 10-12) and rs1040225 (p
= 1.82 × 10-11) in the male stuttering GWAS; and rs848293 (p
= 9.23 × 10−18) in beat synchronization GWAS. We examined
effects at significant SNPs across studies and found alleles
associated with increased risk of stuttering were associated with
poorer beat synchronization and decreased risk of language
decline (p < .003 Bonferroni correcting for four SNPs across four
studies).
We utilized NeuroimaGENE, a catalog of
neuroendophenotypes derived from transcriptome-wide
association studies in 33,000 individuals from UK Biobank, and
found the thalamus and somatosensory cortex, areas involved
in processing sensory information, are associated with VRK2
expression (p < Benjamini-Hochberg correction threshold).
Phenome-wide association study of genetically regulated VRK2
expression revealed suggestive associations with neurological
and hormonal clinical outcomes, including anxiety, and major
depression, and a significant association with congenital
anomalies of female genital organs p = .0000235996). 
Page 44 The 2023 Annual Meeting of the International Genetic Epidemiology Society
117
Annotation Query (AnnoQ): An Integrated and Interactive
Platform for Comprehensive Genetic Variant Annotation
on a Large Scale
Bryan Queme1,2*, Tremayne Mushayahama1
, Dustin Ebert1
,
Anushya Muruganujan1
, Paul D. Thomas1
, Huaiyu Mi1
1
Division of Bioinformatics, Department of Population and Public
Health Sciences, University of Southern California, Los Angeles,
California, United States of America; 2
Division of Biostatistics,
Department of Population and Public Health Sciences, University
of Southern California, Los Angeles, California, United States of
America.
The Annotation Query (AnnoQ) system (http://annoq.org/)
is a comprehensive platform providing up-to-date functional
annotations for about 39 million human genetic variants.
Distinctively user-friendly, AnnoQ pre-annotates all variants
using over 600 annotation types, serving as an intuitive search
tool for large datasets. The interactive interface allows for quick
queries and reviews before conducting extensive analyses.
Collaborating with renowned resources like the Gene
Ontology Consortium, Reactome, and PANTHER, AnnoQ
ensures access to the latest functional annotations. Additionally,
it utilizes PEREGRINE to extend annotations to non-coding
regions, associating variants with respective target genes,
functions, and pathways.
Equipped with an optimized Elasticsearch framework,
AnnoQ supports real-time complex searches and various
search types, catering to diverse research needs. An API for
programmatic access to annotated data is also provided,
supplementing the web interface. This empowers users
to embed annotation queries within scripts using popular
programming languages like R.
In essence, AnnoQ serves as an all-encompassing
annotation platform, enabling effective exploration and
analysis of genomic data.
118
Integrating GWAS Summary Statistics, Individual-level
Genotypic and Omic Data to Enhance the Performance for
Large-scale Trait Imputation
Jingchen Ren1,2,*, Zhaotong Lin3
 and Wei Pan2
1
School of Statistics, University of Minnesota, Minneapolis,
Minnesota, United States of America; 2
Division of Biostatistics,
School of Public Health, University of Minnesota, Minneapolis,
Minnesota, United States of America; 3
Department of Statistics,
Florida State University, Tallahassee, Florida, United States of
America
Recently a nonparametric method has been proposed
to impute the genetic component of a trait for a large set of
genotyped individuals based on a separate GWAS summary
dataset of the same trait (from the same population). The
imputed trait may contain linear, non-linear, and epistatic
effects of genetic variants, thus can be used for downstream
linear or non-linear association analyses and machine learning
tasks. Here we propose an extension of the method to impute
both genetic and environmental components of a trait using
both SNP-trait and omics-trait association summary data. We
illustrate an application to a UK Biobank subset of individuals
(n=80K) with both body mass index (BMI) GWAS data and
metabolomic data. We divided the whole dataset into two
equally-sized and non-overlapping training and test datasets;
we used the training data to build SNP- and metabolite-BMI
association summary data and impute BMI on the test data. We
compared the performance of the original and new imputation
methods. As by the original method, the imputed BMI values
by the new method largely retained SNP-BMI association
information; however, the latter retained more information
about BMI-environment associations and were more highly
correlated with the original observed BMI values.
119
Longitudinal Gene Expression Changes Associated with
Liver Measures in Hispanic/Latino Population at Risk for
Metabolic-associated Fatty Liver Disease
Rashedeh Roshani *1, Hung-Hsin Chen1
, Lizzie Frankel1
, Eric
R. Gamazon1
, Wanying Zhu1
, Lauren E. Petty1
, Kari E. North2
,
Joseph B. McCormick3
, Heather M. Highland2
, Susan P. FisherHoch3
, Mariaelisa Graff2
, Jennifer E. Below1
1
Vanderbilt University, Nashville, Tennessee, United States of
America; 2
University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, Chapel Hill,
North Carolina, United States of America; 3
University of Texas at
Houston, Houston, TX, United States of America
Metabolic-associated fatty liver disease (MAFLD) is a
heterogeneous condition with variable severity and progression
and the highest prevalence in Hispanic/Latino populations. To
interpret genome-wide association studies (GWAS) signals and
identify biomarkers, it is crucial to investigate transcriptomics
associated with liver disease progression. This project aims to
examine longitudinal gene expression changes related to liver
measures in the Cameron County Hispanic Cohort (CCHC), a
cohort of Mexican Americans residing at the US-Mexico border
with high rates of MAFLD. This study focused on a group of 927
CCHC participants with longitudinal transient elastography
phenotyping (FibroScan) to measure liver stiffness and
controlled attenuation parameter to measure hepatic fat.
Clinical chemistries were used to derive biomarkers, including
fibrosis-4 index (FIB-4) and aspartate aminotransferase/platelet
index. We employed linear mixed-effect regression models to
estimate the effects of liver measures on gene expression using
up to 1,294 measures, adjusting for covariates such as age, sex,
and ten Probabilistic Estimation of Expression Residuals (PEER)
factors. We used a false discovery rate corrected p value (FDR)
to account for multiple testing. We identified 800 differentially
expressed genes, including several genes within loci that have
previously been implicated in GWAS of MAFLD and related
traits. These genes include  DDX60L  (FDRFIB-4 = 0.038), which
has been implicated for alanine aminotransferase levels,  and
PARVB (FDRFIB-4 = 0.043), which has been implicated for measures
of hepatic fat, alanine aminotransferase, and both adult and
pediatric MAFLD. Our results provide evidence of the functional
effect driving those GWAS signals, including mapping the
effector gene. 
Presentation Abstracts Page 45
120
Ensemble Polygenic Risk Score Development for Coronary
Heart Disease in Middle Eastern Populations
Mohamad Saad1*, Nahin Khan1
, Khalid Kunji1
, Ehsan Ullah1
,
Ayman El Menyar2
, Iftikhar J. Kullo3
, Jassim Al Suwaidi2
1
Qatar Computing Research Institute, Hamad Bin Khalifa
University, Doha, Qatar; 2
Hamad Medical Corporation, Doha,
Qatar; 3
Department of Cardiovascular Medicine, Mayo Clinic,
Rochester, Minnesota, United States of America;
*
Presenting author
Background: We previously validated four existing
polygenic risk scores (PRSs) for coronary heart disease (CHD)
in Middle Eastern (ME) populations using whole genome
sequencing (WGS). Here, we aim at developing ME PRSs and
integrating them with existing PRSs to obtain an ensemble
PRSs that outperforms individual PRSs.
Methods: Our cohort comprised of 1,014 CHD patients and
6,009 controls with 30x WGS in a Middle Eastern cohort. We
split the data into training and testing datasets (70% and 30%).
We developed PRSs using pruning and thresholding (P+T),
LDpred2, and machine learning models (e.g., XGBoost). We
downloaded 35 PRSs from the PGS catalog and evaluated their
performance in the testing dataset. We combined developed
and existing PRSs into an ensemble PRS using summing and
machine learning techniques.
Results: P+T model performed better than LDpred2
(OR=1.8, AUC=0.664 vs OR=1.7, AUC=0.656). The three existing
PRSs that performed the best in our data were PGS000337
(OR=1.8, AUC=0.657), PGS003356 (OR=1.6, AUC=0.64), and
PGS003355 (OR=1.6, AUC=0.637). Summing these three PRSs
improved the performance (OR=1.9, AUC=0.667). Summing
these three PRSs, and our P+T and LDpred2 improved the
performance further (OR=2.2, AUC=0.698). The best XGBoost
model outperformed P+T and LDpred2 (OR=1.8, AUC=0.67).
Conclusions: Our ME PRSs performed better than existing
PRSs to predict CHD. Machine learning models showed good
performance but not strikingly better than P+T and LDpred2.
Combining PRSs developed with different datasets and
methods improved prediction performance, which suggests a
greater transferability across ancestries.
121
Structural Equation Modeling of Polygenic Risk and
Environment in Late-Life Depression Using
Samar Elsheikh, PhD1
, Victoria Marshe, PhD2
, James L. Kennedy,
MD1
, Guillaume Pare3
, Corinne E.Fischer, MD4
, Daniel Felsky,
PhD5,6 and Daniel Mueller, MD, PhD7
1
Centre for Addiction and Mental Health,Toronto, Ontario,
Canada; 2
Colombia University, New York, New York, United
States of America; 3
Department of Pathology and Molecular
Medicine, McMaster University, Hamilton, Ontario, Canada; 4
St.
Michael’s Hospital, Toronto, Ontario, Canada; 5
Krembil Centre
for Neuroinformatics, Centre for Addiction and Mental Health,
Toronto, Ontario, Canada; 6
University of Toronto, Toronto,
Ontario, Canada; 7
Center for Addiction and Mental Health,
Toronto, Ontario, Canada
Our understanding of the interplay between genetic and
environmental factors (Gene x Environment Interaction, or GxE)
determining mental health disorders has improved through the
proliferation of genome-wide interaction association studies
(GWIAS) and targeted GxE analyses. Moreover, multivariate
modeling approaches, such as structural equation modeling
(SEM) and polygenic risk scores (PRS), offer opportunities for
the integration of clinical and genome-wide genotype data in
building improved biopsychosocial models of mental illness
aetiology and their response to treatment.
We propose to construct a SEM framework to uncover
the inter-correlation and directed structure of mental
health phenotypes by leveraging the joint predictive
capacity of PRS for comorbid traits that share underlying
biological and environmental risk pathways. The proposed
model will be capable of linking latent constructs to their
observed measurements; these will include disease severity,
comorbidities and clinical histories, and behaviors and lifestyle
factors such as physical and social activity.
Our gene-by-environment SEM (GESEM) will be initially
developed and tested using four well-characterized clinical
cohorts for older adults diagnosed with late-life depression
and treated with antidepressants (CAN-BIND, IRL-GREY, STOPPD II and IMPACT; n =1,238). The primary outcome will be
antidepressant remission. Multiple PRS will be calculated to
capture underlying genetic risk across vulnerable pathways
which contribute to comorbidities. This selection will be made
based on new, largely unpublished work from our group on
the impact of PRS and targeted GxE studies on psychiatric
outcomes across the lifespan. Each PRS will be calculated using
both clumping and thresholding (PRSice-2) and continuous
shrinkage (PRS-CS-auto) methods across selected cohorts using
well-powered publicly available GWAS summary statistics. The
multilevel GESEM model will include interactions between
symptoms and comorbidities (i.e., observed measurements),
which are caused by unobserved factors (i.e.,latent constructs),
and are subject to modification by background PRS. We
will compare our GESEM model against existing SEM-based
approaches to GxE, including local SEM (LOSEM).
An open-source R package of the analytical code will be
created and shared with the research community. This work has
the potential to improve upon existing PRS-based predictive
models in a clinical setting.
122
Categorization of Alzheimer’s Disease Risk Variants
Identifies Tissue-Shared and Tissue-Specific Genetic
Regulatory Effects
Rebecca L. Sale1
, Michael Betti1
, Garrett Kaas1
, Eric R. Gamazon1,2
1
Vanderbilt Genetics Institute, Vanderbilt University, Nashville, TN;
2
Clare Hall, Cambridge University, Cambridge, United Kingdom
Genome Wide Association Studies (GWAS) of Alzheimer’s
Disease (AD) have identified over 70 associated loci. Many of
these associations lie in intronic and intergenic regions and
are assumed to regulate gene transcription. Identifying a
causal link between genetic variation and gene expression
may identify novel therapeutic targets for AD. Furthermore,
AD presentation is heterogeneous and by partitioning AD
risk variants into functional and tissue specific categories,
one can identify context-specific risk factors for personalized
medicine approaches. To understand the tissue and cell type
specific genetic regulation of gene expression, we utilized a 
Page 46 The 2023 Annual Meeting of the International Genetic Epidemiology Society
functional prediction framework developed in the Gamazon
lab, CoRE-BED. CoRE-BED leverages cell types and various
functional assays from the EpiMap compendium to train a
decision tree that categorizes individual variants into cell type
specific functional categories, such as promoter or enhancer.
These functional annotations are then utilized to estimate cell
type contributions to AD heritability and risk by generating
partitioned heritability and cell type specific Polygenic Risk
Scores (PRS) in each cell type. Finally, to determine causal
relationships between cell-type dependent gene expression
and AD, we utilized Mendelian randomization with Joint Tissue
Imputation (MR-JTI). MR-JTI leverages instrumental variables
(Z) to estimate the causal effect of a gene (G) on the trait (Y).
This causal framework will provide mechanistic insights into AD
genetic predisposition.
123
Colocalization Analysis of Sex-dependent Traits
Eric J. Sanders*1
, Lisa J. Strug2,3,4, Deb K. Pal5,6,7
1
Dalla Lana School of Public Health, The University of Toronto, M5T
3M7 Toronto, Canada; 2
Genetics and Genome Biology Program,
The Hospital for Sick Children, M5G 0A4 Toronto, Canada;
3
Departments of Statistical Sciences and Computer Science and
Division of Biostatistics, The University of Toronto, M5G 1Z5
Toronto, Canada; 4
The Centre for Applied Genomics, The Hospital
for Sick Children, M5G 0A4 Toronto, Canada; 5
Department of
Basic & Clinical Neurosciences, Institute of Psychiatry, Psychology
& Neuroscience, King’s College London, SE5 9RX London, United
Kingdom; 6
MRC Centre for Neurodevelopmental Disorders, King’s
College London, SE1 1UL London, United Kingdom; 7
King’s College
Hospital, SE5 9RS London, United Kingdom
Colocalization analysis investigates whether two
independent association signals in a genetic region have
a shared causal variant. It is commonly conducted using
statistics from a genome-wide association study (GWAS) and an
expression quantitative train locus (eQTL) analysis, as this can
guide follow-up functional studies by informing the responsible
gene and tissue of origin for the GWAS signal. However, sexspecific genetic associations pose a challenge for colocalization
analysis. For example, in our previous GWAS of absence seizure
history in individuals with juvenile myoclonic epilepsy (JME),
we identified a protective SNP on chromosome 17 specific
to females. Follow-up investigation through colocalization
analysis requires choosing to either disregard sex variation or
to perform analysis marginally by sex, both of which can reduce
power. To address this, we propose two novel approaches
extending the colocalization methodology implemented in
our software package LocusFocus. The first method derives
a novel statistic that considers if genetic association exists in
either sex. The second concatenates marginal test statistics
from male and female groups for analysis. Simulations were
conducted to compare the two novel approaches with an
approach that ignored sex variation and an approach analyzing
each sex marginally. It was observed that our novel approach
based on concatenated statistics consistently met or exceeded
the power exhibited in the other three approaches. Thus, the
concatenated statistic approach may be the more versatile
option when studying colocalization in suspected sex-varying
traits. This approach is applied in ongoing investigations of sexvarying associations in absence seizure incidence in those with
JME.
124
Large-scale Multilayer Proteomics and Multi-omics
Integration Reveal Molecular Networks Related to
Alzheimer’s Disease in Diabetic Brains
Vishal Sarsani1,2
, Ana W. Capuano3
, Shinya Tasaki3
, Zoe
Arvanitakis3
 and Liming Liang1,2,4
1
Department of Epidemiology, Harvard T H Chan School of
Public Health, Boston, Massachusetts, United States of America;
2
Program in Genetic Epidemiology and Statistical Genetics,
Harvard T H Chan School of Public Health, Boston, Massachusetts,
United States of America; 3
Rush Alzheimer’s Disease Center, Rush
University Medical Center, Chicago, Illinois, United States of
America; 4
Department of Biostatistics, Harvard T H Chan School of
Public Health, Boston, Massachusetts, United States of America
Type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2D) and Alzheimer’s disease
(AD) are two complex diseases that are prevalent in the aging
population. Recent research suggests that insulin resistance, a
key feature of T2D, is associated with AD pathology, including
amyloid-β deposition and cognitive impairment. To better
understand the molecular mechanisms underlying insulin
resistance in the brain and periphery and relate these to AD
neuropathology and cognitive function, we performed a deep
multilayer proteomics profiling and multi-omics integration
study. We examined 192 post-mortem brain and muscle
samples from individuals with and without T2D and with varying
levels of AD pathology. We quantified 11,726 phosphopeptides
and 29,955 non-phosphopeptides from 3,537 protein groups in
frozen brain tissue (dorsolateral prefrontal cortex). Our analysis
revealed that subjects with higher levels of AD pathology
exhibited hyperphosphorylation in proteins like MAPT,
regardless of T2D status. Interestingly, we also identified 105
phosphorylation changes in proteins, including MAP2, SLC43A2,
and GIT1, that were common to both AD and T2D. We integrated
GWAS, methylation, metabolomics, and transcriptomic profiles
of matched samples to build predictive omics signatures using
a novel semi-supervised machine learning (ML) framework. To
examine the generalizability and utility of our results, we tested
our framework-generated signatures on primarily peripheral
blood omics data from AD and T2D subjects in UK Biobank. In
conclusion, with our multilayer proteomics data and novel ML
omics integration framework, we built predictive signatures
and molecular network maps of AD and T2D phosphorylation
signaling events, thus filling knowledge gaps in metabolism,
insulin signaling, and AD research.
125
Multivariable Mendelian Randomization to Disentangle
the Alcohol Harm Paradox
Gemma Sawyer1*, Jasmine Khouja1,2, Hannah Sallis1,3, Marcus
Munafò1,2, Liam Mahedy1
1
MRC Integrative Epidemiology Unit, Population Health Sciences,
Bristol Medical School, University of Bristol, Bristol, United
Kingdom; 2
School of Psychological Sciences, University of Bristol,
Bristol, United Kingdom; 3
Centre for Academic Mental Health,
Population Health Sciences, Bristol Medical School, University of
Bristol, Bristol, United Kingdom
Presentation Abstracts Page 47
The alcohol harm paradox, whereby low socioeconomic
position (SEP) groups experience greater alcohol-related harms
despite reporting lower alcohol consumption, is yet to be fully
understood through observational studies because key drivers
are correlated and share similar confounding structures. We
conducted multivariable Mendelian randomization (MVMR)
to estimate the direct causal effect of drinks per week (DPW)
and years of schooling (YOS), whilst accounting for the other,
on multiple health outcomes. Previously published GWAS
summary statistics for DPW and YOS were utilised, and summary
statistics were generated from individual-level data from UK
Biobank (N = 462,818) for all outcomes. In inverse variance
weighted analyses, we found evidence for direct effects of DPW
and YOS on liver diseases, mental and behavioural disorders
due to alcohol, and stroke, indicating that alcohol consumption
increased the likelihood of outcomes whereas years of
education decreased their likelihood. There was also evidence
for a direct effect of DPW on depression, anxiety, influenza/
pneumonia, and heart disease. In contrast, there was evidence
of a total, but not direct, effect of DPW on depression, influenza/
pneumonia, epilepsy, and injuries when accounting for YOS,
suggesting that education drives these total effects. Although
caution is required when interpreting these results due to weak
instruments for alcohol, our results may provide indicative
evidence that the alcohol harm paradox is partially due to the
protective effect of additional years of education, resulting in
a reduced likelihood of higher SEP groups developing many
alcohol-related outcomes. Replication with strong instruments
would be necessary to draw causal inferences.
126
Biobank Scale Analysis of Mendelian Disease
Alexandra Scalici1,2,*, Tyne Miller-Fleming, PhD1,2, Dharmendra
Choudhary, PhD1,2, Ela W. Knapik, MD1,2, Nancy J. Cox, PhD1,2
1
Division of Genetic Medicine, Department of Medicine, Vanderbilt
University Medical Center, Nashville, Tennessee, United States
of America; 2
 Vanderbilt Genetics Institute, Vanderbilt University
Medical Center, Nashville, Tennessee, United States of America.
Genome-wide association studies (GWAS) have identified
the contribution of common variation to numerous phenotypes.
However, population level studies like GWAS are not suitable to
study rare, monogenic variation that often causes Mendelian
disease due to limitations in statistical power and small sample
sizes. We implemented an approach that leverages electronic
health records (EHR), genetically predicted gene expression
(GPGE) data from an EHR-linked biobank, BioVU, and known
Mendelian disease phenotypes cataloged in the Online
Mendelian Inheritance of Man (OMIM) to study Mendelian
disease at the population level. We applied this framework
to LH3 Deficiency, a rare connective tissue disorder linked to
mutations in PLOD3 that is characterized by bone fragility with
contractures, arterial rupture, and deafness. We conducted
a gene-based phenome-wide association study (PheWAS) to
identify phenotypes associated with reduced GPGE of PLOD3
(< -2 SD units) in BioVU. Our PheWAS identified previously
reported LH3 Deficiency phenotypes catalogued in OMIM and
novel phenotypes associated with reduced GPGE of PLOD3.
Using the effect estimates from the associated phenome
(p<0.05) as weights, we constructed a phenotypic risk score
(PheRS) and used it in a transcriptome-wide association study
(TWAS) to test whether the PLOD3 PheRS is associated with
changes in GPGE. Conducting pathway and overrepresentation
analyses (ORA), we identified pathways associated with reduced
GPGE of PLOD3. This novel application of PheWAS and PheRS
has the potential to allow us to study Mendelian disease at the
population level.
127
Mendelian Randomization Approaches Lead to Improved
Understanding of Causal Traits and Genes Associated with
Stuttering
Alyssa C. Scartozzi1
, Dillon G. Pruett2
, Hannah G. Polikowsky1
,
Douglas M. Shaw1
, Hung-Hsin Chen1
, Lauren E. Petty1
, Alexander
S. Petty1
, Emily Lowther4
, Yao Yu5
, 23andMe Research Team6
,
Heather M. Highland7
, Christy L. Avery7,8, Kathleen M. Harris8,9,
Reyna L. Gordon10, Janet M. Beilby11, Kathy Z. Viljoen11, Robin M.
Jones2,12, Shelly Jo Kraft4
, Jennifer E. Below1
1
Vanderbilt Genetics Institute, Vanderbilt University Medical
Center, Nashville, Tennessee, United States of America; 2
Hearing
and Speech Sciences, Vanderbilt University, Nashville, Tennessee,
United States of America; 3
Epidemiology, University of North
Carolina at Chapel Hill, Chapel Hill, North Carolina, United States
of America; 4
Communication Sciences and Disorders, Wayne State
University, Detroit, MI, United States of America; 5
Epidemiology,
The University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center, Houston, TX,
United States of America; 6
23andMe, Inc, Sunnyvale, California,
United States of America; 7
Epidemiology, University of North
Carolina at Chapel Hill, Chapel Hill, North Carolina, United
States of America; 8
Carolina Population Center, the University
of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, Chapel Hill, North Carolina,
United States of America; 9
Department of Sociology, University of
North Carolina at Chapel Hill, Chapel Hill, North Carolina, United
States of America; 10Department of Otolaryngology, Vanderbilt
University Medical Center, Nashville, Tennessee, United States of
America; 11Curtin School of Allied Health, Curtin University, Perth,
WA, Australia; 12Department of Hearing and Speech Sciences,
Vanderbilt University Medical Center, Nashville, Tennessee, United
States of America
Developmental stuttering is a common speech disorder
associated with various comorbid traits. Despite population
and familial-population efforts, the genetic factors affecting
stuttering risk and comorbidity are unknown. Using 23andMe,
Inc. summary statistics from GWAS of self-reported stuttering,
we explored causal pathways between stuttering and reported
comorbidities, and identified candidate causal genes.
To determine if comorbid traits harbor a causal or
horizontal pleiotropic relationship, we performed sex-specific
Mendelian randomization (MR) of 18 traits with stuttering. We
found causal effects of genetic liability associated with BMI,
chronotype, walking pace, suicide ideation, and testosterone
on stuttering risk. Genetic risk of stuttering showed causal
effects on depression (MR Egger p < .05). These results align with
several studies suggesting individuals who stutter experience
elevated prevalence of depression.
To identify potential causal genes associated with
stuttering, we performed sex-specific MR-joint-tissue
expression imputation. For females, we identified 92 unique
causally-implicated genes after multiple test correction. Only 
Page 48 The 2023 Annual Meeting of the International Genetic Epidemiology Society
three of these genes, NMUR2, MMAB, DCC, were the reported
genes at genome-wide significant loci in the original 23andMe
GWAS of stuttering (Polikowsky et al. 2023) and are involved
in GPCR signaling, metabolic processes, and axon guidance.
For males, we identified 24 causal genes. Only MMAB was
identified in Poliwkosky et al., 2023, and ZMAT4 was a top hit
in an independent analysis, Shaw et al. 2021, and is involved in
nucleic acid binding.
Future studies will investigate neuroendophenotypes
associated with these potentially causal stuttering genes.
Understanding these genetic relationships may inform clinical
manifestations of stuttering that differ between sexes.
128
Examination of Nephrotic Syndrome Genetic Architecture
in Large-Scale Biobanks Replicates Known and Identifies 20
Novel Loci
Hannah M. Seagle1
, Joseph H. Breeyear1,2, Eric S. Torstenson3
,
Yanfei Zhang4
, Gail P. Jarvik5
, Ozan Dikiltas6
, Ming Ta Michael
Lee7
, Iftikhar J. Kullo6
, Robb Rowley8
, Krzysztof Kiryluk9
, Todd L.
Edwards1,2,10, Katalin Susztak11, Jacklyn N. Hellwege1,2,12
1
Vanderbilt Genetics Institute, Vanderbilt University, Nashville,
Tennessee, United States of America; 2
VA Tennessee Valley
Healthcare System (626), Nashville, Tennessee, United States
of America; 3
Department of Biomedical Informatics, Vanderbilt
University Medical Center, Nashville, Tennessee, United States of
America; 4
Genomic Medicine Institute, Geisinger Health Systems,
Danville, Pennsylvania, United States of America; 5
Departments of
Medicine (Medical Genetics) and Genome Sciences, University of
Washington Medical Center, Seattle, WA, United States of America;
6
Department of Cardiovascular Medicine, Mayo Clinic, Rochester,
Minnesota, United States of America; 7
Galatea Bio, Inc. Hialeah,
Florida, United States of America; 8
National Human Genome
Research Institute, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda,
Maryland, United States of America; 9
Division of Nephrology,
Department of Medicine, Vagelos College of Physicians &
Surgeons, Columbia University, New York, New York, United States
of America; 10Division of Epidemiology, Department of Medicine,
Vanderbilt University Medical Center, Nashville, Tennessee, United
States of America; 11University of Pennsylvania and Children’s
Hospital of Philadelphia Kidney Innovation Center, Philadelphia,
Pennsylvania, United States of America; 12Division of Genetic
Medicine, Department of Medicine, Vanderbilt University Medical
Center, Nashville, Tennessee, United States of America
Nephrotic syndrome (NS) is a collection of disorders
characterized by excess protein in urine (>3g/day). We
integrated genotype data from Vanderbilt University’s BioVU
and the Electronic Medical Records and Genetics (eMERGE)
network with summary statistics from FinnGen, Million Veteran
Program (MVP), Biobank Japan (BBJ) and UK Biobank (UKB), for
a cross-ancestry total of 5,214 cases (3,060|790|1,364; European
(EUR)|African (AFR)|East and Central Asian (ASN)) and 1,601,060
controls (1,279,630|135,664|185,766; EUR|AFR|ASN). Cases were
identified with diagnostic codes (FinnGen) or NS phecodes.
Controls lacked renal disease diagnosis codes. Associations
with NS were modeled as a function of additive genotype, sex,
and the top ten principal components, followed by inversevariance weighted meta-analysis within and across ancestral
groups. We identified 31 significant (r2
<0.1, >1Mb, p<5x10-8)
loci in the multi-ancestry analysis. The strongest association
in the multi-ancestry analysis was rs1265889 (class II MHC
region, p=1.4x10-20, OR=1.50 (1.43–1.57)). In the AFR analysis,
we identified 16 novel non-HLA loci and replicated APOL1 G1
variants (p=4.5x10-15, OR= 2.56). Associations between NS and
genetically-predicted gene expression were evaluated using
GTEx v8 tissue models. We identified 28 unique genes among
167 significant (p<1.55x10-6) gene-tissue pairs in the multiancestry analysis. Among significant SNPs in these genes,
1,080 SNPs in AGPAT1, C4A, HLA-DQA1, HLA-DQB1, HLA-DQB2,
NOTCH4, and RNF5 genes were also kidney eQTLs (FDR<0.05)
in the Human Kidney eQTL Atlas (susztaklab.org). This study
provides insight into NS through identification of novel genetic
loci and translation to predicted renal gene expression in the
largest multi-ancestry meta-analyses to date.
129
Genome-wide Association Study of Neuropathology
Endophenotypes Provides Insights into Dementia Risk
Factors
Lincoln M.P. Shade1
, Yuriko Katsumata1,2, Erin L. Abner2,3, Steven
A. Claas1
, Timothy J. Hohman4
, Shubhabrata Mukherjee5
, Richard
P. Mayeux6
, Lindsay A. Farrer7
, Gerard D. Schellenberg8
, Jonathan
L. Haines9
, Walter A. Kukull10, Kwagsik Nho11, Andrew J. Saykin11,
David A. Bennett12, Julie A. Schneider13, Mark T. W. Ebbert2,14,15,
Peter T. Nelson15,16, David W. Fardo1,2, the Alzheimer’s Disease
Neuroimaging Initiative, the National Alzheimer’s Coordinating
Center, and the Alzheimer’s Disease Genetics Consortium
1
Department of Biostatistics, College of Public Health, University of
Kentucky, Lexington, Kentucky, United States of America; 2
SandersBrown Center on Aging and Alzheimer’s Disease Research Center,
University of Kentucky, Lexington, Kentucky, United States of
America; 3
Department of Epidemiology and Environmental
Health, College of Public Health, University of Kentucky, Lexington,
Kentucky, United States of America; 4
Vanderbilt Memory &
Alzheimer’s Center, Department of Neurology, Vanderbilt
University Medical Center, Nashville, Tennessee, United States
of America; 5
Department of Medicine, University of Washington,
Seattle, Washington, United States of America; 6
Department of
Neurology, Columbia University, New York, New York, United
States of America; 7
Department of Medicine, Boston University,
Boston, Massachusetts, United States of America; 8
Penn
Neurodegeneration Genomics Center, University of Pennsylvania
Perelman School of Medicine, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, United
States of America; 9
Institute for Computational Biology, Case
Western Reserve University, Cleveland, Ohio, United States of
America; 10Department of Epidemiology, University of Washington,
Seattle, Washington, United States of America; 11Department
of Radiology & Imaging Sciences, Indiana University School of
Medicine, Indianapolis, Indiana, United States of America; 12Rush
Alzheimer’s Disease Center and Department of Neurological
Sciences, Rush Medical College, Chicago, Illinois, United States
of America; 13Rush Alzheimer’s Disease Center and Departments
of Neurology and Pathology, Rush University Medical Center,
Chicago, Illinois, United States of America; 14Division of Biomedical
Informatics, Department of Internal Medicine, University of
Kentucky, Lexington, Kentucky, United States of America;
15Department of Neuroscience, University of Kentucky College
of Medicine, Lexington, Kentucky, United States of America;
16Department of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine, University
of Kentucky, Lexington, Kentucky, United States of America
Presentation Abstracts Page 49
Background: Genome-wide association studies (GWAS)
have identified over 70 Alzheimer’s disease (AD)-associated
loci. However, the clinical- and proxy-based outcomes used
in most studies do not reflect the complexity of underlying
neuropathologies. We studied the genome-wide association of
eleven dementia-related neuropathological endophenotypes
using four sources of neuropathological data (pooled N =
7,463).
Methods: GWAS were performed for each endophenotype
and followed by downstream functional analyses to identify
potential molecular functions of risk loci. To confirm molecular
phenotypic association with neuropathologies, we performed
targeted analyses with DNA methylation and bulk RNA-Seq
data from the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex.
Results: We identified a locus near APOC2 (rs4803778
OR=1.24, P value=5.8x10-12) associated with cerebral amyloid
angiopathy (CAA) after adjusting for APOE ε2/ε3/ε4 diplotypes.
This locus is also associated with DNA methylation at four
nearby CpG sites. Methylation levels at two sites (cg0955818 P
value=0.004, cg13119609 P value=0.0007) were associated with
CAA. Additionally, we identified two novel neuropathology risk
loci (PIK3R5 and neurofibrillary pathology; COL4A1 and cerebral
atherosclerosis) and confirmed associations of known AD risk
loci with multiple neuropathologies.
Conclusions: Our findings highlight the importance of
neuropathological endophenotypes as necessary complements
to clinical AD studies to understand the genetic risk of clinical
AD-related dementias.
130
Network-based Quantitative Trait Linkage Analysis of
Microbiome Composition in Inflammatory Bowel Disease
Families
Arunabh Sharma1
, Olaf Junge1
, Silke Szymczak2
, Malte
Rühlemann3
, Janna Enderle4
, Stefan Schreiber3,5, Andre Franke3
,
Wolfgang Lieb4
, Michael Krawczak1
, Astrid Dempfle1
* 1
Institute of Medical Informatics and Statistics, Kiel University, Kiel,
Germany; 2
Institute of Medical Biometry and Statistics, University
of Lübeck, Lübeck, Germany; 3
Institute of Clinical Molecular
Biology, Kiel University, Kiel, Germany; 4
Institute of Epidemiology,
Kiel University, Kiel, Germany; 5
Department of Internal Medicine I,
University Hospital Schleswig-Holstein, Kiel, Germany
Inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) is characterized by a
dysbiosis of the gut microbiome that results from the interaction
of the constituting taxa with one another and with the host. At
the same time, host genetic variation is associated with both
IBD risk and microbiome composition. In the present study,
we therefore defined quantitative traits (QTs) from modules
identified in microbial co-occurrence networks to measure
the consistency of microbial abundance and subjected these
QTs to a genome-wide quantitative trait locus (QTL) linkage
analysis. Linkage analysis was performed in the Kiel IBD family
cohort (IBD-KC), an ongoing study of 256 German families
comprising 455 IBD patients and 575 first- and second-degree,
non-affected relatives. The analysis revealed five chromosomal
regions to be linked to one of three microbial module QTs,
namely on chromosomes 3 (spanning 10.79 cM) and 11 (6.69
cM) for the first module (labeled ‘blue’), chr9 (0.13 cM) and chr16
(1.20 cM) for module ‘yellow,, and chr13 (19.98 cM) for module
‘turquoise.’ Our study thus illustrates the benefit of combining
microbial network and family-based linkage analysis to identify
novel genetic drivers of microbiome composition in a specific
disease context.
131
Genome-wide Implementation of Multi-population Joint
Analysis Marginal Summary Statistics (mJAM) and Its
Applications in Polygenic Risk Score Models
Jiayi Shen1
, James Baurley2
, Jingxuan He1
, Gillian King1
,
Christopher A. Haiman3,4, David V. Conti1, 3, 4
1
Division of Biostatistics, Department of Preventive Medicine,
Keck School of Medicine, University of Southern California, Los
Angeles, California, United States of America; 2
 BioRealm Research,
Walnut, California, United States of America; 3
Center for Genetic
Epidemiology, Keck School of Medicine, University of Southern
California, Los Angeles, California, United States of America;
4
Norris Comprehensive Cancer Center, University of Southern
California, Los Angeles, California, United States of America
Previously we proposed a multi-population fine-mapping
approach called “mJAM”. mJAM effectively fits a multi-SNP
model within each population with population-specific LD
and then performs a fixed-effect meta-analysis of the joint
model while incorporating a Bayesian ‘g-prior’ for robust
estimation. The resulting model provides the flexibility to
identify noteworthy SNPs using existing Bayesian or frequentist
feature selection approaches. We propose a scalable version of
the previous region-wise mJAM implementation that can be
applied to genome-wide data (“GW-mJAM”). We illustrated GWmJAM with forward selection as the main approach for selecting
index SNPs, applied GW-mJAM on the latest prostate cancer
summary statistics with four populations, and constructed PRS
using the index SNPs. Resultant PRS built from GW-mJAM can
be applied to individuals of any ancestry without estimating
ancestry or using self-identifying population information.
We evaluated GW-mJAM’s PRS using incident data from the
MultiEthnic Cohort Study (five populations, 2,885 cases, 25,904
controls; Kolonel et al., 2000) where the OR of 1-standarddeviation increase in PRS is 1.96 (1.76 - 2.18) among Africanancestry men and 2.25 (2.03 - 2.50) among European-ancestry
men. In addition, we incorporate GW-mJAM with other feature
selection approaches as well as apply GW-mJAM to three other
cancer types (breast, colorectal, and lung) with available multipopulation summary statistics. PRS models built from GWmJAM’s results are evaluated and compared with other GW PRS
approaches such as PRS-CSx (Ruan et al., 2022) to investigate
the impact of trait characteristics, quality of reference panel,
and methodology on test performance.
132
Phenome-Wide Association Study of Polygenic Risk for
Central Adiposity
Navya Shilpa Josyula1*; Geetha Chittoor1
; Mariaelisa Graff2
;
Emmaleigh Wilson3
, Zhe Wang4
, Meng Lin5
, Hung-Hsin Chin6
,
Greg Linchangco7
, Anne E. Justice1 on behalf of the GIANT Waist
Traits Working Group
1
Population Health Sciences, Geisinger Health, Danville, PA;
2
Department of Epidemiology, University of North Carolina at
Chapel Hill, Chapel Hill, North Carolina, United States of America; 
Page 50 The 2023 Annual Meeting of the International Genetic Epidemiology Society
3
Department of Genetics, University of North Carolina at Chapel
Hill, Chapel Hill, North Carolina, United States of America;
4
Charles Bronfman Institute for Personalized Medicine, Icahn
School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, United States of
America; 5
Department of Biomedical Informatics, University of
Colorado Anschutz Medical Campus, Denver, CO, United States of
America; 6
The Vanderbilt Genetics Institute, Vanderbilt University
Medical Center, Nashville, Tennessee, United States of America;
7
Department of Epidemiology, Emory University Rollins School of
Public Health, Atlanta, GA
Abdominal obesity has a high comorbidity burden
independent of overall obesity, yet abdominal circumference
is not typically assessed clinically. With the growing number of
EHR-linked biobanks with available genotyping, we assessed
the potential of using polygenic risk scores (PRS) for central
adiposity as measured by waist-to-hip ratio adjusted for BMI
[WHRadjBMI] and performed a phenome-wide association
(PheWAS) to identify associations.
Using results from a multi-population GWAS of WHRadjBMI
including over 1,187,156 participants (80% European, 11% East
Asian, 4% South Asian, 3% Hispanic/Latino, 2% African), we
developed a PRS using PRS-CSx with optimization in the panancestry UKBB. The resulting SNPs and weights were used to
create a weighted score and evaluate associations between
the PRS and diseases/traits, adjusted for age, sex, and principal
components, in five independent studies (MyCode, eMERGE,
CCPM, BioME and BioVU) including 326,440 individuals. Studyspecific PheWAS results were then meta-analyzed using
inverse-variance weighted fixed-effects meta-analysis.
Of the 1,792 traits tested; we identified 151 significant
associations (p<2.8e-05) with most significant results validating
expected central adiposity associations with cardiometabolic
outcomes. Increasing PRS was positively associated with Type
2 diabetes (p=1.3e-273), hyperlipidemia (P=8.5e-121), coronary
atherosclerosis (p=3.1e-81), and hypertension (p=1.4e-74).
We also identified significant associations with digestive
(e.g., chronic liver disease, P=3.2e-51), genitourinary (e.g.,
chronic kidney disease, p=2.0e-14), and musculoskeletal (e.g.,
neurogenic arthropathy, p=6.6e-12) illnesses.
Our results demonstrate that central adiposity PRS is
associated with an increased risk of several cardiometabolic
diseases and suggest a potential value to assess risk in the
absence of clinically-assessed body fat distribution.
133
Accurate UV Exposure Measure Reveals Novel Variants
in Genome-wide Association and Interaction Analyses of
Vitamin D Status
Rasha Shraim1,2,3, Jos van Geffen4
, Michiel van Weele4
, Ross
McManus2
, Lina Zgaga1
1
Department of Public Health and Primary Care, Institute of
Population Health, Trinity College Dublin, Dublin, Ireland;
2
Department of Clinical Medicine, Trinity Translational Medicine
Institute, Trinity College Dublin, Dublin, Ireland; 3
The SFI Centre
for Research Training in Genomics Data Sciences, University of
Galway, Galway, Ireland; 4
Royal Netherlands Meteorological
Institute, De Bilt, The Netherlands
Sun exposure is the major determinant of vitamin D levels
in humans. Recent genome-wide studies have identified up to
143 variants linked to vitamin D status, independently and in
interaction with sun exposure. The common approach relies on
season of blood sampling, dichotomized as summer/winter, as
a proxy for UV exposure. We explored the aetiology of vitamin D
status in the UK Biobank, using an exact measure of ambient UV.
To capture UV exposure over a period of time, we calculated a
weighted UV dose for each participant based on their residence
and date of blood sampling. UVB, the relevant wavelength for
vitamin D production, was adjusted for cloud cover and the rate
of decay of vitamin D in the body. We first carried out a genomewide association study (GWAS) of 25-hydroxyvitamin-D
(25OHD) in 408,820 White British individuals. In addition to age,
sex, supplement intake, and population structure, the model
was adjusted for the calculated UVB dose. We then carried out
a genome-wide gene-environment interaction analysis (GxE)
in the same sample where the model additionally included a
GxUVB interaction term. The GWAS results identified 54 novel
independent variants significantly associated with 25OHD
concentration and the GxE analysis identified 37 novel variants.
Downstream functional analysis of these variants supports
vitamin D involvement in metabolic pathways and hormone
and skin phenotypes. Overall, our findings support the
importance of accurate environmental exposure measures and
accounting for gene-environment interactions in uncovering
the genetic architecture of complex traits like vitamin D status.
134
Two-sample Mendelian Randomization of Major Depressive
Disorder and Inflammatory Bowel Disease
Claire L. Simpson1
, Steven R. Brant2
1
Department of Genetics, Genomics and Informatics, University
of Tennessee Health Science Center, Memphis, Tennessee, United
States of America; 2
Robert Wood Johnson Medical School, Rutgers
University, New Jersey, United States of America
Inflammatory bowel disease (IBD), including the subtypes
Crohn’s disease and ulcerative colitis, is a chronic, immunemediated disease that is typically diagnosed in the late teens or
twenties. However, it can begin at any age. Symptoms include
persistent diarrhea, abdominal pain, cramping, loss of appetite,
weight loss, and fever. A significantly lower quality of life has
been reported in many patients. This effect appears to go beyond
the simple burden of dealing with the disease as the complex
relationship between the gut and the brain may increase the
risk to patients with IBD of developing mental illness. Whether
the effect is unidirectional, bidirectional, or caused by common
external risk factors is unknown. This study aims to explore
the causal relationship between IBD and major depressive
disorder. Using publicly available genome-wide association
study summary datasets, we selected SNPs from GWAS of Major
Depressive Disorder (MDD) (N=480,359), Crohn’s Disease (CD)
(N=51,874), Ulcerative Colitis (UC)(N=47,745) and Inflammatory
Bowel Disease (IBD)(N=65,642). We performed inverse-variance
weighted (IVW) two-sample Mendelian randomization (TSMR).
We observed an inverse association with the outcomes CD
(beta=2.23E-02, P=0.04) and UC (beta=0.37, P=0.04) with MDD,
but not with IBD (beta=-0.14, P=0.87). Analyses are ongoing
and will be presented.
Presentation Abstracts Page 51
135
A Genetic Association Test Robust to Arbitrary Population
Structure
Minsun Song*
Department of Statistics, Sookmyung Women’s University, Seoul,
Korea
We present a new statistical test of association between
a trait and genetic markers, which we theoretically and
practically prove to be robust to arbitrarily complex population
structure. The statistical test involves a set of parameters that
can be directly estimated from large-scale genotyping data,
such as those measured in genome-wide associations studies.
We also derive a new set of methodologies, called a genotypeconditional association test, shown to provide accurate
association tests in populations with complex structures,
manifested in both the genetic and non-genetic contributions
to the trait. Our proposed framework provides a substantially
different approach to the problem from existing methods. 
136
Mosaic Loss of Chromosome Y and Telomere Length as Risk
factors for Alzheimer’s Disease in the Midwestern Amish
Yeunjoo E. Song1,2,+*, Yining Liu1,2,+, Renee A. Laux1
, Weihuan
Wang1
, Kristy L. Miskimen1
, Sarada L. Fuzzell1
, Sherri D.
Hochstetler1
, Leighanne R. Main3
, Ping Wang1
, Michael B.
Prough4
, Daniel A. Dorfsman4
, Susan H. Slifer4
, Larry D. Adams4
,
Laura J. Caywood4
, Jason E. Clouse4
, Sharlene D. Herington4
,
Audrey Lynn1,2, Jeffery M. Vance4,5, Michael L. Cuccaro4,5, Paula K.
Ogrocki6,7, Alan J. Lerner6,7, Margaret A. Pericak-Vance4,5, William
K. Scott4,5, and Jonathan L. Haines1,2,3
1
Department of Population and Quantitative Health Sciences, Case
Western Reserve University School of Medicine, Cleveland, Ohio,
United States of America; 2
Cleveland Institute for Computational
Biology, Case Western Reserve University, Cleveland, Ohio, United
States of America; 3
Department of Genetics and Genome Sciences,
Case Western Reserve University School of Medicine, Cleveland,
Ohio, United States of America; 4
Hussman Institute for Human
Genomics, University of Miami School of Medicine, Miami, Florida,
United States of America; 5
Dr. John T Macdonald Foundation
Department of Human Genetics, University of Miami Miller
School of Medicine, Miami, Florida, United States of America;
6
Brain Health and Memory Center, University Hospital, Cleveland,
Ohio, United States of America; 7
Department of Neurology, Case
Western Reserve University School of Medicine, Cleveland, Ohio,
United States of America
+ contributed equally
In aging men, mosaic loss of chromosome Y (mLOY) has
been suggested as a possible biomarker for increased risk
of numerous diseases, including Alzheimer’s disease (AD).
Telomere length (TL) also is a candidate biomarker for aging
and many aging-related diseases. We investigated the familial
correlation and heritability of these two biomarkers as risk
factors for AD in the Midwestern Amish.
TL was calculated from whole genome sequencing (WGS)
data using Telseq. The mean read depth of the male-specific
region of chromosome Y was used to measure the degree of
mLOY for males only. The multivariate familial correlations
were estimated. The association between biomarkers and the
Modified Mini-Mental State (3MS) examination and heritability
were assessed accounting for relatedness and age at blood
sampling.
After QC, 1,047 individuals (mean age=80.76±5.71, 41%
male) were available. Heritability of TL was 0.17 (SE=0.07,
p=9.4x10-3), 0.38 (SE=0.13, p=2.2x10-3) and 0.04 (SE=0.12,
p=0.37) in all, males and females, respectively. Heritability of
mLOY was 0.38 (SE=0.16, p=0.01) in males. mLOY and TL was
highly correlated in males (r=0.21±0.05, p=2.0x10-4). The TL
correlation was higher among brother pairs than in sister pairs
(0.306 vs. 0.001). It was higher in father-son pairs than any
other parent-offspring pairs. The correlation between TL and
3MS was higher among males than in females (0.109, p=0.08 vs.
0.018, p=0.37). Our results along with the lower prevalence of
AD in Amish reinforces mLOY and TL as promising biomarkers
for the risk of AD.
137
MagicalRsq-X: A Cross-cohort Transferable Genotype
Imputation Quality Metric
Quan Sun1
, Yingxi Yang2
, Jiawen Chen1
, Jia Wen1
, Michael R.
Knowles1
, Charles Kooperberg3
, Alex Reiner3
, Laura M. Raffield1
,
April Carson4
, Stephen Rich 5
, Jerome Rotter6
, Ruth Loos7
, Eimear
Kenny7
, Byron C. Jaeger7
, Yuan-I Min4
, Christian Fuchsberger8
,
Yun Li1
1
University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill; 2
Yale University; 3
Fred
Hutchinson Cancer Center; 4
University of Mississippi Medical
Center; 5
University of Virginia; 6
University of California, Los Angeles; 7
Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai; 8
EURAC Research Center.
Since genotype imputation was introduced, researchers
have been relying on the estimated imputation quality from
imputation software to perform post-imputation quality
control (QC). However, this quality estimate (denoted as Rsq)
performs less well for lower frequency variants. We recently
published MagicalRsq, a machine-learning-based imputation
quality calibration metric, which leverages additional typed
markers from the same cohort and outperforms Rsq as a QC
metric. In this work, we extended the original MagicalRsq to
allow cross-cohort model training, named MagicalRsq-X. We
removed the cohort-specific estimated minor allele frequency
and additionally included LD scores and recombination rates as
variant-level features. Leveraging whole genome sequencing
data from TOPMed, specifically participants in BioMe, JHS, WHI
and MESA studies, we performed comprehensive cross-cohort
evaluations for European and African ancestral individuals
based on their inferred global ancestry with the 1000 Genomes
and HGDP data as reference. Our results suggest MagicalRsq-X
outperforms Rsq in almost every setting, with 7.3-14.4%
improvement in squared Pearson correlation with true R2
,
corresponding to 85-218K variant gains. We further developed
a metric to quantify the genetic distances of a target cohort
relative to a reference cohort and showed that such metric
could largely explain the performance of MagicalRsq-X models.
Finally, we found that MagicalRsq-X saved 9-53 GWAS variants
in one of the largest blood cell traits GWAS results that would
be missed using the original Rsq for QC.
In conclusion, MagicalRsq-X shows clear superiority for
post-imputation QC and can greatly benefit genetic studies by
rescuing well-imputed low frequency and rare variants.
Page 52 The 2023 Annual Meeting of the International Genetic Epidemiology Society
138
Whole Exome Sequencing Association Study of Familial
Bipolar Disorder and Related Conditions in Anabaptist
Founder Populations
Heejong Sung1
*, Layla Kassem1
, Emily Besancon1
, Fabiana
Lopes1
, Sevilla Detera-Wadleigh1
, Nirmala Akula1
, Antonio
Nardi2
, Thomas G. Schulze3
, Francis J. McMahon1
1
Genetic Basis of Mood and Anxiety Disorder, Human Genetics
Branch, National Institute of Mental Health, NIH, Bethesda,
Maryland, United States of America; 2
Institute of Psychiatry, Federal
University of Rio de Janeiro, Rio de Janeiro, RJ Brazil; 3
Institute of
Psychiatric Phenomics and Genomics, University Hospital, LMU
Munich, Munich, 80336, Germany; Department of Psychiatry and
Behavioral Sciences, SUNY Upstate Medical University, Syracuse,
New York, United States of America; Department of Psychiatry and
Behavioral Sciences, Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine,
Baltimore, Maryland, United States of America
The Amish Mennonite Bipolar Genetics (AMBiGen) study
seeks genetic variants that substantially increase the risk
for bipolar disorder (BD) and related conditions in founder
populations. In this study, the affected participants had
diagnoses of BD, schizophrenia, schizoaffective disorder or
recurrent major depressive disorder. Whole exome sequencing
(WES) was performed at Regeneron Genetics Center. 533,144
variants with a read depth >30x, calling rate >95% in 820
samples with genotyping rate >95%, and no Mendelian errors
were retained for analysis of 431 cases and 389 controls.
Heterozygous variants, with Anabaptist Variant Server (AVS)
minor allele frequency (MAF) <0.01, shared by >5 affected
individuals in their first-degree relatives, and belonging to
genes with pLI >0.99, were grouped by Variant Effect Predictor
(VEP) impact level (High, Moderate, Low, Modifier). The AVS
is a database that provides variant annotation information for
over 10,000 Amish and Mennonite individuals. Association
tests were run in SAIGE-GENE, adjusting for relatedness, sex,
and population principal components. Modifier variants were
significantly associated with the affection status although other
impact level variants were not. Half of the considered modifier
variants have an AMBiGen MAF greater than the MAF in AVS
or non-Finnish Europeans in gnomAD. The gene list includes
some known psychiatric risk genes. The AMBiGen represents
the largest WES study of BD in founder populations. The results
of AMBiGen WES study suggest increased burdens of rare,
modifier variants shared among affected first-degree relatives
in genes with a high intolerance to loss-of-function mutations.
139
Drug Repurposing for Alzheimer’s Disease: The Use of
Genetics-enriched, Neuropathology-associated SPI1
Regulon in Microglia
Tan Yuting1,2 *
, Rui Chen1,2, Quan Wang1,2, Anshul Tiwari1,2 , Yan
Yan3
, Bingshan Li1,2, Xue Zhong1,4
1
Vanderbilt Genetics Institute, Nashville, Tennessee, United States
of America; 2
Department of Molecular Physiology and Biophysics,
Vanderbilt University, Nashville, Tennessee, United States of
America; 3
Department of Biostatistics, Vanderbilt University,
Nashville, Tennessee, United States of America; 4
Department of
Medicine, Division of Genetic Medicine, Vanderbilt University
Medical Center, Nashville, Tennessee, United States of America
Alzheimer’s disease (AD) is characterized by progressive
decline in memory and cognition and involves multiple brain
cell types. Among them, microglia play a crucial role and
are the major cell type implicated in AD genetics. Evidence
accumulates suggesting that drugs with support from
genetics are more likely to succeed to the market. Here, we
aim to identify genetics-enriched, AD-relevant regulatory
programs in microglia to guide the search of approved drugs
for repurposing toward AD. We detected 241 regulons from
AD single-cell RNAseq data, with 42 of them being significantly
enriched in AD heritability based on LDSC on the latest AD
GWAS summary statistics. Most of these genetics-enriched
regulons are active in microglia, and the SPI1-regulon, named
by the master regulatory TF SPI1 (PU.1), ranked with the
highest AD heritability. The SPI1-regulon activity score in
microglia increased as the AD pathological burden increased,
and its regulon genes are enriched for GO terms including
mononuclear cell differentiation, wound healing, endocytic
vesicle, and GTPase regulator activity etc. Several AD risk
genes appear in the SPI1-regulon, including APOE, INPP5D and
CD74 etc. By evaluating the proximity between drug target(s)
and SPI1-regulon genes on a gene-gene interaction network,
we identified several promising candidate drugs for AD,
including Salsalate and Baricitinib. In conclusion, we showed
that combining single-cell RNAseq, GWAS summary statistics
and neuropathological traits of AD enabled the dissection of
genetics-enriched, AD-relevant regulatory programs in human
microglia, which have value in guiding the drug purposing for
AD.
140
Empowering Immunogenetic Analysis with Biofilter 3.0 via
Enhanced Annotation and Filtering Capabilities
Van Q. Truong1-6, Xueqiong Li2-4, Rasika Venkatesh1-4, Scott M.
Dudek2-4, E. John Wherry1,5,6, Marylyn D. Ritchie1-4
1
Graduate Group in Genomics & Computational Biology, Perelman
School of Medicine, University of Pennsylvania, United States of
America; 2
The Penn Institute for Biomedical Informatics, Perelman
School of Medicine, University of Pennsylvania, United States of
America; 3
Biomedical and Translational Informatics Laboratory,
Perelman School of Medicine, University of Pennsylvania; United
States of America; 4
Department of Genetics, Perelman School of
Medicine, University of Pennsylvania, United States of America;
5
The Penn Institute for Immunology and Immune Health,
Perelman School of Medicine, University of Pennsylvania, United
States of America; 6
Department of Pharmacology & Translational
Therapeutics, Perelman School of Medicine, University of
Pennsylvania, United States of America; Corresponding Author:
Marylyn D. Ritchie, marylyn@pennmedicine.upenn.edu
Autoimmune diseases are a growing global health concern,
affecting approximately 4.5% of people worldwide. In addition,
25% of affected individuals suffer from multiple autoimmune
disorders. While hundreds of genetic variants have been
identified for the most common autoimmune diseases, the
small effect sizes and limited explanatory power underscore the
need for an integrative knowledge-driven approach. The body
of knowledge for genetic and immunological information is vast
and oftentimes overwhelming. We discuss how incorporating
immune-relevant information can empower the discovery 
Presentation Abstracts Page 53
and interpretation of combinations of genetic variations
based on prior immunological knowledge. In this work, we
present Biofilter 3.0 which contains enhanced annotation
and filtering capabilities for empowering immunogenetic
analyses. Previous versions of Biofilter provided a convenient
single interface for accessing multiple publicly available
human biological databases stored within the supporting
knowledgebase of the Library of Knowledge Integration (LOKI).
We integrated additional public databases of autoimmune and
immune-mediated information into LOKI to bolster existing
information on genomic locations of SNPs, genes, ontological
categories, and interaction pairs. Furthermore, we expanded
the functionality of Biofilter to make it possible to leverage this
prior knowledge in analyses. This approach yields a collection
of functions which enable researchers to efficiently annotate,
subset, and filter thousands of SNPs, genes, proteins, and
genomic locations based on immunological criteria, including
relevant immune terms, pathways, and/or diseases.
141
Investigation on the Genetic Landscape of MT-CO3 in
Anemic Patients of Tribal Population in the State of Tamil
Nadu, India
Dhivya Venkatesan1
, Nimmisha Eruppakotte2
, Harsha Ganesan2
,
Balachandar Vellingiri 2,3,*
1
Department of Biotechnology, Karpagam Academy of Higher
Education (Deemed to be University), Coimbatore 641021, India;
2
Human Molecular Cytogenetics and Stem Cell Laboratory,
Department of Human Genetics and Molecular Biology, Bharathiar
University, Coimbatore – 641 046, Tamil Nadu, India; 3
Stem
cell and Regenerative Medicine/Translational Research, North
block, Department of Zoology, School of Basic Sciences, Central
University of Punjab, Bathinda, Punjab 151401, India
Anaemia is a blood disorder where oxygen-carrying
capability becomes inadequate to meet the physiologic
desires of the body. Low haemoglobin (Hb) concentration or
iron deficiency is the most common reason for anaemia. The
present study aims to screen MT-CO3 alterations in anaemic
patients of tribal population in the state of Tamil Nadu, India.
Institutional ethical clearance was approved to conduct this
study. Also, informed consent was obtained from the tribal
anaemic patients. The study included n=30 anaemic subjects
with an equal number of healthy controls. The study conducted
haematological analysis based on that the severity of anaemia
was evaluated as mild, moderate, and severe. From the analysis,
we found that the parameters concentrations reported with
66.67% with mild anaemic, 26.67% were moderately anaemic,
and 6.66% were severely anaemic. The genetic alterations of
MT-CO3 were performed by PCR and sequencing in which the
finding T/C transition mutation in nucleotide position 9540 in 19
anaemic patients with significancy at p=0.0016 was observed.
The controls resulted with normal haematological reports and
no genetic alterations.
In conclusion, the current study delivers the importance
of anaemia among Tamil Nadu tribal population, emphasizing
the prevalence and mitochondrial DNA alterations in anaemic
patients. Though anaemia prevalence is high, the need for
genetic alterations is less in India, hence, in the future, the need
for advanced molecular techniques is necessary to understand
the genetic pattern of anaemia in the Tamil Nadu population.
Keywords: Anaemia; Haematology; Genetic alterations;
MT-CO3; Tribal population
142
Leveraging Polygenic Scores to Reveal the Interplay of
Serum Bilirubin, Smoking, and Cancer Risk in a Diverse Los
Angeles Biobank
Vidhya Venkateswaran1,2*, Ella Petter1,8, Kristin Boulier3,7, Yi
Ding1,3, Arjun Bhattacharya9†, Bogdan Pasaniuc1,3-6†
1
Department of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine, David Geffen
School of Medicine, University of California, Los Angeles, Los
Angeles, California, United States of America; 2
Department of Oral
Biology, School of Dentistry, University of California, Los Angeles,
Los Angeles, California, United States of America;3
Bioinformatics
Interdepartmental Program, University of California, Los Angeles,
Los Angeles, California, United States of America;4
Department
of Human Genetics, David Geffen School of Medicine, University
of California, Los Angeles, Los Angeles, California, United States
of America; 5
Department of Computational Medicine, David
Geffen School of Medicine, University of California, Los Angeles,
Los Angeles, California, United States of America; 6
Institute of
Precision Health, University of California, Los Angeles, Los Angeles,
California, United States of America; 7
Department of Medicine,
Division of Cardiology, University of California, Los Angeles,
Los Angeles, California, United States of America; 8
Department
of Computer Science, University of California, Los Angeles, Los
Angeles, California, United States of America; 9
Department of
Epidemiology, University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center,
Houston, Texas, United States of America
*Corresponding author: vvenkat@g.ucla.edu, †
Equal contribution
Recent studies identify serum bilirubin (SB) as a metabolic
hormone with potent antioxidant effects, linking low SB levels
with cancers, and metabolic and cardiovascular diseases.
Additionally, tobacco smoking is reported to contribute to
low SB levels. Thus, the associations between SB and cancers
are theorized to be secondary to interactions with tobacco
smoking. Using electronic health records data (EHR) on
~400,000 individuals and a polygenic score for SB on ~60,000
individuals, we examine the interplay of SB with head and neck
cancer (HNC) and tobacco smoking within the UCLA ATLAS
biobank, a diverse EHR-linked biobank with extensive deidentified phenotypic and demographic information.
We find that SB is inversely correlated with smoking
(Linear coefficient: -0.02, CI [-0.0250, -0.0152]) and HNC (Linear
coefficient: -0.16, CI [ -0.19, -0.13]) after adjusting for age, sex,
and self-identified race and ethnicity. Further, in a group of
propensity score-matched HNC cases and controls (2040 cases
and controls), matched on patient age, sex, smoking history,
and self-identified race and ethnicity, we find a similar inverse
association with bilirubin (Linear coefficient: -0.16, CI [-0.18,
-0.12])
Lastly, we used a polygenic score (PGS) for ‘total bilirubin’
from the PGS catalog (PGS002160) as a genetic fixed point to
identify the direction of the associations between SB, smoking,
and HNC. We imputed the PGS in European genetic ancestry
individuals in ATLAS and validated the predictive ability against 
Page 54 The 2023 Annual Meeting of the International Genetic Epidemiology Society
observed total bilirubin from the EHR (Linear coefficient: 0.22,
CI [0.21, 0.23]). Next, we tested the association of the validated
bilirubin PGS with smoking history and HNC respectively,
finding no significant associations (Linear coefficients: -0.004, CI
[-0.0116,0.0035] and 0.0002, CI [-0.0014, 0.0018], respectively)
This study is the first reported evaluation of the association
between SB and HNC. Our results suggest that low SB is likely
secondary to HNC or a common unidentified factor that
influences control over both HNC risk and SB and is independent
of smoking.
143
Rapid Prediction of COVID-19 Vaccine Effectiveness Against
New Genetic Variants of SARS-CoV-2 by Genome Analysis
Lirong Cao1,2, Jingzhi Lou3
, See Yeung Chan1,3, Hong Zheng1,2,
Caiqi Liu1
, Shi Zhao1,2, Qi Li1,2, Chris Ka Pun Mok1,4, Renee Wan
Yi Chan5,6, Marc Ka Chun Chong1,2, William Ka Kei Wu4,7,8, Zigui
Chen9
, Eliza Lai Yi Wong1,10, Paul Kay Sheung Chan9,11, Benny
Chung Ying Zee1,2, Eng Kiong Yeoh1,10, and Maggie Haitian
Wang1,2*
1
JC School of Public Health and Primary Care, The Chinese
University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong SAR, China; 2
CUHK Shenzhen
Research Institute, Shenzhen, China; 3
Beth Bioinformatics Co. Ltd.,
Hong Kong SAR, China; 4
Li Ka Shing Institute of Health Sciences,
The Chinese University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong SAR, China;
5
Department of Paediatrics, The Chinese University of Hong Kong,
Hong Kong SAR, China; 6
Hong Kong Hub of Paediatric Excellence,
The Chinese University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong SAR, China;
7
Department of Anaesthesia and Intensive Care and Peter Hung
Pain Research Institute, The Chinese University of Hong Kong,
Hong Kong SAR, China; 8
State Key Laboratory of Digestive Disease,
The Chinese University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong SAR, China;
9
Department of Microbiology, The Chinese University of Hong
Kong, Hong Kong SAR, China; 10Centre for Health Systems and
Policy Research, The Chinese University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong
SAR, China; 11Stanley Ho Centre for Emerging Infectious Diseases,
The Chinese University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong SAR, China;
Corresponding Author: Maggie Haitian Wang, email: maggiew@
cuhk.edu.hk, JC School of Public Health and Primary Care, The
Chinese University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong SAR, China.
Background: Timely evaluation of the protective effects
of COVID-19 vaccines against SARS-CoV-2 variants of concern
(VOC) is urgently needed to inform pandemic control planning.
Method: Based on 78 vaccine efficacy or effectiveness (VE)
data from 49 studies, and 1,984,241 SARS-CoV-2 sequences
collected from 31 regions, we analyzed the relationship
between genetic distance (GD) of circulating viruses against the
vaccine strain and VE against symptomatic infection.
Result: We found that the GD of the receptor binding
domain of the SARS-CoV-2 Spike protein is highly predictive of
vaccine protection and accounted for 86.3% (p-value = 0.038)
of the VE change in a vaccine platform-based mixed-effects
model and 87.9% (p-value = 0.006) in a manufacturer-based
model. We applied the VE-GD model to predict protection
mediated by existing vaccines against new genetic variants and
validated the results by published real world and clinical trial
data, finding high concordance of predicted VEs with observed
VEs. We estimated the VE against the Delta variant to be 82.8%
(95% prediction interval: 68.7 – 96.0) using the mRNA vaccine
platform, closely matching the reported VE of 83.0% from an
observational study. Among the four sub-lineages of Omicron,
the predicted VEs varied between 11.9% to 33.3%, with the
highest VE predicted against BA.1, and the lowest against BA.2,
using the mRNA vaccine platform.
Conclusion: The VE-GD framework enables predictions of
vaccine protection in real time, and offers a rapid evaluation
method against novel variants that may inform vaccine
deployment and public health responses.
Reference: Cao L, Lou J, Chan SY, Zheng H, Liu C, Zhao S,
Li Q, Mok CK, Chan RW, Chong MK, Wu WK. Rapid evaluation of
COVID-19 vaccine effectiveness against symptomatic infection
with SARS-CoV-2 variants by analysis of genetic distance. Nature
Medicine. 2022 Aug;28(8):1715-22.
144
Shared Sex-Specific Functional Genetic Risk Factors in SelfReported Clinical Depression and Alzheimer’s Disease
Ting-Chen Wang1,2, Adam C. Naj3
, William Bush4
, Logan
Dumitrescu1,2, Jennifer E. Below1
1
Vanderbilt Genetics Institute and Division of Genetic Medicine,
Department of Medicine, Vanderbilt University Medical Center,
Nashville, Tennessee, United States of America; 2
Vanderbilt
Memory and Alzheimer’s Center, Department of Neurology,
Vanderbilt University Medical Center, Nashville, Tennessee, United
States of America; 3
Department of Biostatistics, Epidemiology,
and Informatics, Perelman School of Medicine, University of
Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, United States of
America; 4
Department of Population & Quantitative Health
Sciences, School of Medicine, Case Western Reserve University,
Cleveland, Ohio, United States of America
In Alzheimer’s disease (AD) and self-reported clinical
depression, higher disease prevalence in females have been
observed. In this study, we investigated the overlapping sexspecific functional genetic architecture of depression and AD to
reveal shared biological mechanisms.
We performed tissue-specific transcriptome-wide
association analyses (SPrediXcan) on GWAS summary data for
AD and sex-stratified depression. We identified genes overlap
between AD and depression, investigating if genetically
regulated expression (GReX) of these genes shows consistent
effects on both phenotypes. The AD GWAS included 111,326
clinically diagnosed/proxy AD cases and 677,664 controls
analyzed by Bellenguez et al. The sex-stratified depression
GWAS summary data from UK Biobank included 8,166 male
cases and 43,675 male controls, also 16,921 female cases and
49,020 female controls. The SPrediXcan analysis included eQTLs
from 19 GTEx tissues. The AD SPrediXcan analysis yielded 3,128
significant tissue-specific associations (false discovery rate [FDR]
< 0.05). The male depression SPrediXcan model resulted in 24
such associations surpassing the significant threshold (FDR <
0.05), whereas no significant gene associations were observed
in females. GReX of three genes, TMEM106B, PPP1R18, and
ZSCAN9, was associated with both AD risk and male depression.
Interestingly, the predicted expression of TMEM106B in whole
blood was observed in both datasets but with opposite
directions of effect (TMEM106B in AD: effect size=-0.057,
PFDR=0.013; in male depression: effect size=0.019, PFDR=0.043). 
Presentation Abstracts Page 55
Overall, our results suggest there are genes contributing
to depression and AD in a sex-specific manner. We will
further investigate causal links between tissue-specific gene
expressions and phenotypes and in sex-stratified AD summary
statistics.
146
Impact of GWAS Meta-Analysis Heterogeneity on Polygenic
Prediction Accuracy
Yuxuan Wang1*, Ching-Ti Liu1
1
Department of Biostatistics, Boston University School of Public
Health, Boston, Massachusetts, United States of America
Various PRS methods have leveraged genome-wide
association study (GWAS) summary statistics that often
derived from GWAS meta-analyses in a large-scale consortium
to maximize statistical power. However, the impact of
heterogeneity in effect sizes among cohorts on PRS predictive
accuracy remains unclear.
We conducted simulations to investigate the implication
of heterogeneity on PRS performance. We simulated 20
independent cohorts (n=10,000) for each ancestry (AFR, EUR).
Heterogeneity was introduced for true causal effect size by
varying genetic correlation levels across cohorts (rg = 1, 0.9, 0.6,
0.3). We performed GWAS for each cohort and meta-analyzed
ten distinct cohorts with various proportions of AFR cohorts. We
applied clumping and thresholding (C+T) to the meta-GWAS
summary statistics and evaluated the predictive performance
with the remaining AFR samples. We re-constructed the PRS by
excluding heterogeneous (I2
 > 75) variants.
 The simulation study illustrated that the number of
heterogeneous variants increased as genetic correlation
decreased across cohorts. The PRS was more predictive with
higher proportions of target ancestry-matched cohorts and
larger cross-cohort genetic correlations. When rg=1, excluding
heterogeneous variants substantially improved prediction
accuracy for PRS built from multi-ancestry meta-GWAS, but
not for single-ancestry meta-GWAS. However, when rg < 1,
removing the heterogeneous variants reduced prediction
accuracy for both single and multi-ancestry meta-GWAS.
In conclusion, our study provides insights into the impact
of between-study heterogeneity on polygenic prediction and
highlights the potential to enhance prediction accuracy by
incorporating heterogeneity measurements.
147
Mediation Analysis with a Categorical Exposure and a
Censored Mediator in Genetic Studies
Jian Wang1
*, Jing Ning1
, and Sanjay Shete1,2
1
Department of Biostatistics, The University of Texas MD Anderson
Cancer Center, Houston, Texas, United States of America;
2
Department of Epidemiology, The University of Texas MD
Anderson Cancer Center, Houston, Texas, United States of America
Mediation models have been widely used to determine
direct and indirect contributions of genetic variants on
clinical phenotypes or complex diseases. In genetic studies,
the additive genetic model is the most used model because
typically the mode of action of susceptibility SNPs is unknown,
and the additive model can detect effects from either recessive
or dominant models, or any model in between. Moreover, the
highly polymorphic loci can also be involved in the mediation
model as an exposure.  However, the existing approaches for
mediation model cannot be directly applied when the genetic
model is additive or categorical. Therefore, in this study, we
proposed overall measures of indirect, direct, and total effects
for a mediation model with a categorical exposure and a
censored mediator, accounting for the frequency of different
categories of the categorical exposure. The proposed approach
provides the overall contribution of the categorical exposure
to the outcome variable instead of the relative contribution
comparing one category to another. We assessed the empirical
performance of the proposed overall measures via simulation
studies and applied the measures to evaluate the mediation
model for the study of a women’s age at menopause on the
association between genetic variants and Type 2 diabetes.
148
Longitudinal Data Analyses in UK Biobank Identify Novel
Loci Associated with Kidney Function Decline
Simon Wiegrebe1,2*, Mathias Gorski1
, Thomas W. Winkler1
,
Janina M. Herold1
, Helmut Küchenhoff2
 and Iris M. Heid1
1
Department of Genetic Epidemiology, University of Regensburg,
Regensburg, Germany; 2
Statistical Consulting Unit StaBLab,
Department of Statistics, LMU Munich, Munich, Germany
Accelerated kidney function decline can lead to kidney
failure requiring renal replacement therapy. Kidney function
can be assessed by serum creatinine-based estimated
glomerular filtration rate (eGFR). Cross-sectional studies
have identified 634 independent variants modulating eGFR
levels. However, knowledge on the genetics of eGFR decline is
limited: nine variants (two in/near UMOD-PDILT with genomewide significance) have been found to be associated with the
difference of two eGFR assessments over time by previous
meta-analyses (n=350,000).
We investigated the detectability of variants for eGFR
decline by testing the 634 variants with various linear mixed
models (LMMs) adjusted for age, sex, 20 PCs. For this, we used
longitudinal data from UK Biobank augmented with electronic
medical records (≥2 measurements for each of n=152,821,
European ancestry, unrelated; #measurements=1,356,851).
Via LMM with SNP*time interaction and random intercepts,
we found 112 variants associated with eGFR decline with
p<0.05/634 (seven of nine known, 105 novel). Interestingly, 30
variants were even genome-wide significant (28 for the first
time and the two UMOD-PDILT variants). Four were proteinaltering (one causal for renal dysfunction: rs3184504, SH2B3).
The LMM with SNP*age interaction yielded largely the
same variants and highly correlated beta estimates (Spearman
r²=0.99 for 82 variants Bonferroni-corrected significant in both
models). When adding random slopes to the SNP*time model,
only two variants were Bonferroni-corrected significant (UMODPDILT), and overall larger SEs suggested lower power.
In summary, we identified new variants and loci for eGFR
decline by applying LMMs to UK Biobank eGFR trajectories.
Our results underline the power gain from including repeated
measurements.
Page 56 The 2023 Annual Meeting of the International Genetic Epidemiology Society
149
Genetic-by-age Interaction Analyses in UK Biobank and
Their Potential to Identify Genetic Effects on Longitudinal
Biomarker Change
Thomas W. Winkler1*, Simon Wiegrebe1,2, Mathias Gorski1
,
Helmut Küchenhoff2
, Iris M. Heid1
1
Department of Genetic Epidemiology, University of Regensburg,
Franz-Josef-Strauß-Allee 11, 93053 Regensburg, Germany;
2
Statistical Consulting Unit StaBLab, Department of Statistics, LMU
Munich, Geschwister-Scholl-Platz 1, 80539 Munich, Germany
GWAS have identified thousands of loci for disease-related
biomarkers in cross-sectional data. However, identifying genetic
effects on longitudinal biomarker change has been hampered
by small sample sizes for longitudinal measurements. Such
effects, indicating genetic susceptibility to disease progression,
can be highly clinically relevant. Under the assumption of no
cohort effect, we demonstrate that genetic-by-age interaction
observed in cross-sectional data can be indicative of a genetic
effect on longitudinal-change that would be observed if
the same individuals attended multiple visits. We show that
exploiting large cross-sectional sample sizes to pre-screen for
genetic-by-age interaction can greatly enhance the power for
identifying longitudinal-change effects. Within UK Biobank
(UKB), we conducted genome-wide genetic-by-age interaction
analyses (Europeans-only, n~370,000, excluding individuals
with multiple visits) for nine biomarkers: body-mass-index
(BMI), estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR), urate, HDL-/
LDL-cholesterol, triglycerides, systolic/diastolic blood pressure,
and pulse pressure (PP). We identified 76 significant geneticby-age interaction loci (PGxAge<5x10-8; or by a 2-step approach
incorporating marginal effects) including 32 for PP, 6 for BMI
and 15 for eGFR. We tested these loci for their longitudinalchange effects in independent individuals with longitudinal
measurements available (n~52,000 in UKB, n~340,000 for
eGFR in CKDGen) and observed significant effects on BMIchange (near APOE, TMEM18), eGFR-change (near PDILT, TPPP
and FGF5) and PP-change (near FBN1, implicated in arterial
stiffness; all at trait-level Bonferroni-significance; all missed by
a screen on longitudinal-change in UKB alone). In conclusion,
cross-sectional genetic-by-age interaction can help pinpoint
longitudinal-change effects, when the cross-sectional sample
size and thus power outnumbers the longitudinal sample size
available.
150
The Contribution of the Proteome in Type 2 Diabetes and
Osteoarthritis
Ruby Woodward1
, Bethany Voller2
, Gina Parcesepe1,3 and Frank
Dudbridge1
1
University of Leicester, Leicester, United Kingdom 2
Univeristy
of Exeter, Exeter, United Kingdom 3NIHR Leicester Biomedical
Research Centre, Leicester, United Kingdom
Multimorbidity (the presence of more than one disease)
is on the rise with an increasingly older population. Some
clusters of diseases are more common than others, one
example supported by observational and genetic data being
the co-occurrence of Type 2 diabetes (T2D) and osteoarthritis
(OA). Although complex interactions between diseases are
often poorly understood, in the case of T2D and OA, BMI is
considered the major shared modifiable risk factor; despite this,
other shared biological mechanisms (perhaps altered through
high BMI) could improve knowledge of disease initiation,
progression, and severity.
Circulating proteins play a pivotal role in disease. Proteomic
data is crucial for discovering causal mechanisms involved
in diseases and shared pathways between diseases. Using
publicly available proteomic data from deCODE genetics for
~5000 proteins, we performed LD-Score Regression to assess
the genome-wide genetic correlation between all proteins with
both T2D and OA. Following this, local genetic correlation was
measured for 126 proteins that were genetically correlated
(p<0.05) with both diseases using Local Analysis of [co]Variant
Association (LAVA).
Our initial results suggest that local genetic correlation
is dispersed throughout the entire genome, with no clear
differences between cis and trans regions. This provides
evidence that some polygenic effects on disease may be
explained by their action on protein levels.
151
Pathway-level Rare Variant Burden Scores Aggregate the
Effects of Multiple Genes and Associate with Hypertension
in the Penn Medicine BioBank
Brenda Xiao1
, Marylyn D. Ritchie2,3, Dokyoon Kim3,4
1
Graduate Program in Genomics and Computational Biology,
University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, United
States of America; 2
Department of Genetics, Perelman School of
Medicine, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania,
United States of America; 3
Institute for Biomedical Informatics,
University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, United
States of America; 4 Department of Biostatistics, Epidemiology
and Informatics, Perelman School of Medicine, University of
Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, United States of
America
Gene burden rare variants analyses have identified
numerous genes associated with various phenotypes. However,
the low number of rare variant carriers limits power to detect
associations for many complex diseases. Grouping similar genes
together by analyzing the effects of rare variants at the pathway
level could identify candidate pathways that are involved with
the development of complex diseases such as hypertension.
We performed a gene burden loss-of-function rare variant
analysis using SAIGE-GENE+ to identify genes associated with
hypertension in European ancestry individuals in the Penn
Medicine BioBank (PMBB). We then selected genes that passed
a P value significance threshold of 0.01. We summed up carrier
status for significant genes in each Reactome pathway to
represent a pathway-level burden, weighting carrier status per
gene by the direction of effect obtained from the gene burden
analysis, and tested the association of each pathway’s burden on
hypertension. PKD1 was the most significant gene association
(P=7.65x10-6), and Reactome pathway R-HSA-5620916 (VxPx
cargo-targeting to cilium) was the most significant pathway
association (P=8.45x10-9). Three of the twenty-one genes in this
pathway were included in the pathway-level burden, including
PKD1 and PKD2. We then used publicly available gene-burden
association results from the UK Biobank for hypertension to
generate pathway-level burden scores in PMBB to predict 
Presentation Abstracts Page 57
hypertension. R-HSA-5620916 remained the most associated
with hypertension, even after addition of a systolic blood
pressure polygenic risk score (PRS) (OR=3.87, P=1.32x10-6), and
its effect was higher in low PRS groups (<40 PRS percentile
group: OR=5.74; >60 PRS percentile group: OR=3.71).
152
A Statistical Learning Method for Simultaneous Copy
Number Estimation and Subclone Clustering with Single
Cell Sequencing Data
Fei Qin1
, Guoshuai Cai2
, Christopher I Amos3
, Feifei Xiao4*
1
Department of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, Arnold School
of Public Health, University of South Carolina, Columbia, South
Carolina, United States of America; 2
Department of Environmental
Health Science, Arnold School of Public Health, University of
South Carolina, Columbia, South Carolina, United States of
America; 3
Department of Quantitative Sciences, Baylor College of
Medicine, Houston, Texas, United States of America; 4
Department
of Biostatistics, College of Public Health and Health Professions
and College of Medicine, University of Florida, Gainesville, Florida,
United States of America;
* To whom correspondence should be addressed
The availability of single cell sequencing (SCS) enables us to
assess intra-tumor heterogeneity and identify cellular subclones
without the confounding effect of mixed cells. Copy number
aberrations (CNAs) have been commonly used to identify
subclones in SCS data using various clustering methods, since
cells comprising a subpopulation are found to share genetic
profile. However, currently available methods may generate
spurious results (e.g., falsely identified CNAs) in the procedure
of CNA detection, hence diminishing the accuracy of subclone
identification from a large complex cell population. In this study,
we developed a CNA detection method based on a fused lasso
model, referred to as FLCNA, which can simultaneously identify
subclones in single cell DNA sequencing (scDNA-seq) data.
Spike-in simulations were conducted to evaluate the clustering
and CNA detection performance of FLCNA benchmarking to
existing copy number estimation methods (SCOPE, HMMcopy)
in combination with the existing and commonly used clustering
methods. Interestingly, application of FLCNA to a real scDNAseq dataset of breast cancer revealed remarkably different
genomic variation patterns in neoadjuvant chemotherapy
treated samples and pre-treated samples. We show that FLCNA
is a practical and powerful method in subclone identification
and CNA detection with scDNA-seq data.
153
Tensor Decomposition of Multi-dimensional Splicing
Events across Tissues to Identify Splicing-mediated Risk
Genes Associated with Complex Traits
Yan Yan1*, Rui Chen2,3, Yuting Tan2,3, Anshul Tiwari2,3, Xue
Zhong2,4, Bingshan Li2,3
1
Department of Biostatistics, Vanderbilt University, Nashville,
Tennessee, United States of America; 2
Vanderbilt Genetics Institute,
Nashville, Tennessee, United States of America; 3
Department
of Molecular Physiology and Biophysics, Vanderbilt University,
Nashville, Tennessee, United States of America; 4
Department of
Medicine, Division of Genetic Medicine, Vanderbilt University
Medical Center, Nashville, Tennessee, United States of America
Identifying risk genes associated with complex traits remains
challenging. Integration of gene expression data with GenomeWide Association Study (GWAS) through Transcriptome-Wide
Association Study (TWAS) methods has been applied on a
variety of complex traits. However, splicing, which explains a
comparable heritability of complex traits as gene expression,
has not been fully explored due to the multidimensional nature
of splicing events. We employed tensor decomposition in
conjunction with sCCA (sparse Canonical Correlation Analysis)
to extract meaningful information from high-dimensional
multiple splicing events across tissues. Leveraging GTEx data,
we developed gene-based splicing predictive models and
applied them to GWAS summary statistics of Alzheimer’s
disease (AD). Our analysis identified 174 significant risk genes
after applying Bonferroni correction. Gene Ontology analysis
revealed a significant enrichment of AD-related functions, such
as amyloid-beta-related pathways, endocytosis, and immunity
functions. Compared to the models using only the brain frontal
cortex tissue, our results demonstrated substantial enrichment
of AD related pathways, and identified additional AD risk genes
that were not detected in the brain tissue analysis alone, while
preserving most of the top genes identified in brain tissue.
Given that AD genetics primarily involves microglia, which
constitute only a small proportion of brain cells, relying solely
on transcriptomics data from brain tissues may not capture
the full genetic landscape of AD. Our across-tissue modeling
approach allows us to extract splicing information relevant to
AD for more comprehensive risk gene discovery. Moreover,
these splicing models can be applied to other complex traits to
help identify splicing-mediated disease risk genes.
154
AI-Enhanced Integration of Genetic and Medical Imaging
Data for Risk Assessment of Type 2 Diabetes
Yi-Jia Huang1
, Chun-houh Chen2
, Hsin-Chou Yang1,2,*
1
Institute of Public Health, National Yang Ming Chiao Tung
University, Taipei, Taiwan; 2
Institute of Statistical Science,
Academia Sinica, Taipei, Taiwan
*Corresponding author
Type 2 diabetes (T2D) is a global public health concern due
to its increasing prevalence. Risk assessment and early detection
of T2D are vital in improving individuals’ health, reducing the
burden on national health insurance and enhancing wellbeing. This study leverages artificial intelligence, specifically
eXtreme Gradient Boosting (XGBoost), to develop predictive
models for T2D based on genetic and medical imaging data.
The models aim to establish a prediction model and identify
high-risk subgroups for T2D within a cohort of 68,769 Taiwan
Biobank participants.
The approach integrates the Polygenic Risk Score (PRS)
and Multi-image Risk Score (MRS) with demographic factors
and environmental exposures to assess T2D risk. The model’s
performance is evaluated using the Area Under the Receiver
Operating Curve (AUC). Results demonstrate that genetic
information alone is insufficient for accurate T2D prediction
(AUC = 0.73), whereas medical imaging data, including
abdominal ultrasonography, vertebral artery ultrasonography,
bone density scan, and electrocardiography, significantly
improves prediction accuracy (AUC = 0.89). The best-performing 
Page 58 The 2023 Annual Meeting of the International Genetic Epidemiology Society
model integrates genetic, medical imaging, and demographic
variables (AUC = 0.94), successfully identifying subgroups
at high risk of developing T2D. The study also presents an
online risk assessment website for T2D. In summary, this
research represents the first integration of whole-genome and
medical imaging data for T2D risk assessment. The geneticonly model outperforms previous genetic prediction studies,
and integrating genetic and medical imaging information
significantly enhances AUC. By utilizing artificial intelligence
to analyze genetic, medical imaging, and demographic factors,
this study contributes to the early detection and precision
health of T2D.
155
Joint Selection of Exposures and Horizontal Pleiotropy in
Multivariable Mendelian Randomization with Application
to Causal Gene Identification
Yihe Yang, Noah Lorincz-Comi, Xiaofeng Zhu
Department of Population and Quantitative Health Sciences,
Case Western Reserve University, Cleveland, Ohio, United States of
America
Background: Jointly analyzing genome-wide association
studies (GWAS) data and expression quantitative trait loci
(eQTL) data will potentially identify causal genes of diseases.
However, current univariable methods such as transcriptomewide association studies (TWAS) and univariable Mendelian
randomization (UVMR) may not be robust due to high
correlations among gene expressions, horizontal pleiotropy,
and weak instrument bias in MR analysis.
Methods: We propose a novel multivariable method
named MR Joint Outliers-aNd-Exposures Selection (Mr.Jones),
which performs multivariable MR (MVMR) analysis in a genome
region using multiple gene expressions as exposures. Mr.Jones
applies the unbiased estimating function to mitigate weak
instrument bias, employs variable selection penalties to select
causal genes and identify horizontal pleiotropy simultaneously,
and decorrelates the instrument variables using their linkage
disequilibrium (LD) matrix.
Results: In simulations, Mr.Jones resulted in unbiased
causal effects estimates in the presence of horizontal pleiotropy
and many weak instrument variables compared with current
MR methods. We applied Mr.Jones to search causal genes
for coronary artery disease (CAD), Type 2 diabetes (T2D), and
osteoarthritis (OA) in European populations, identifying TCF7L2
as a protective gene for T2D, MTAP as a risk gene for CAD, and
SLC25A13 as a risk gene for OA.
Conclusion: As more GWAS and eQTL data become
publicly available, Mr.Jones can serve as a valuable tool in
studying causal relationships between gene expressions and
diseases, therefore enabling a deeper understanding of disease
mechanisms, facilitating precision medicine, and guiding drug
development.
156
Use of Genetic Correlations to Examine Selection Bias
Chin Yang Shapland, Apostolos Gkatzionis, Gibran Hemani,
Kate Tilling
MRC Integrative Epidemiology Unit at the University of Bristol,
United Kingdom
Population Health Sciences at the University of Bristol, United
Kingdom
Observational studies are rarely representative of their
target population, because there are known and unknown
factors that affect an individual’s choice to participate (known
as the selection mechanism). Selection can cause bias in a given
analysis if the outcome is related to selection (conditional on
the other variables in the model). However, the selection
mechanism usually cannot be detected from the observed data
if we have no data on the non-selected sample - for example,
when the selected sample is a participant in a research study.
Here, we develop methods to examine the selection mechanism
by comparing correlations among variables in the selected
sample to those expected under no selection. We examine the
use of four hypothesis tests to identify induced associations
between genetic variants in the selected sample. We evaluate
these approaches with Monte Carlo simulations. Finally, these
approaches are demonstrated with an applied example, using
data from UK Biobank (UKBB), with alcohol intake as exposure
to test the presence of selection bias. The proposed tests have
identified selection due to alcohol intake into UKBB and the
subsample of individuals with weekly alcohol intake. Analyses
in UKBB with alcohol consumption as exposure or outcome
may be biased by this selection.
157
Learning Portable Polygenic Risk Score Models with
Mixtures of Pre-trained Experts to Improve Accuracy across
the Continuum of Ancestry
Shadi Zabad1
, Simon Gravel2*, Yue Li1*
1
School of Computer Science, McGill University, Montreal, Quebec
Canada; 2
Department of Human Genetics, McGill University,
Montreal, Quebec, Canada
*Correspondence: yueli@cs.mcgill.ca, simon.gravel@mcgill.ca
In recent years, there has been growing interest in
incorporating polygenic scores (PRS) into clinical practice and
drug development pipelines. One challenge for realizing the
potential of PRS methods, however, is their poor portability to
out-of-sample individuals and disparity in prediction accuracy
across ancestries. To address this problem, state-of-the-art
PRS methods aim to infer ancestry-specific variant effect size
estimates. While these methods have been shown to improve
prediction accuracy for underrepresented populations,
significant challenges remain. To mitigate the PRS portability
problem, we propose a Mixture-of-Experts (MoE) modeling
framework, which can accommodate heterogeneity of effect
sizes and automatically specialize individual experts on various
partitions of the data. MoEs consist of an ensemble of K PRS
models whose outputs are combined on a per-sample basis
using a “gating” model. The gating model takes as input a list
of covariates for each sample, such as Principal Components,
age, and sex and outputs probabilistic weights for combining
the predictions of the PRS models in the ensemble. To
showcase the utility of this framework, we illustrate how it
can be used to combine pre-trained PRS models from the PGS
Catalog. In a 5-fold cross-validation analysis in the UK Biobank
and CARTaGENE datasets, we show that MoEs significantly
improve prediction accuracy over individual models, with
mean improvements of up to 12% in admixed samples. It 
Presentation Abstracts Page 59
also produces scores that perform more consistently across
a wide range of sociodemographic profiles. These benefits
are achieved without imposing any assumptions or arbitrary
subdivisions on the data at training time.
158
Identifying the Genetic Etiology of Selected Muscular
Dystrophies in Muscular Dystrophy Surveillance, Tracking,
and Research Network (MD STARnet)
Peter B. Kang, MD1
; Magali Jorand-Fletcher, MPH2
; Wanfang
Zhang, MS3
; Suzanne McDermott, PhD4
; Reba Berry, RN5
;
Chelsea Chambers, MS, LCGC6
; Kristen Wong, CGC7
; Kristin M.
Conway, PhD8
; Yara Mohamed, MD2
; Shiny Thomas, MBBS,
MPH9
; Swamy Venkatesh, MD10; Christina Westfield, BSN, MS9
;
Nedra Whitehead, PhD11; Nicholas E. Johnson, MD12; Muscular
Dystrophy Surveillance, Tracking, and Research Network (MD
STARnet) 1
Paul & Sheila Wellstone Muscular Dystrophy Center, Department
of Neurology, and Institute for Translational Neuroscience,
University of Minnesota Medical School, Minneapolis, Minnesota,
United States of America; 2
Department of Pediatrics, University
of Florida College of Medicine, Gainesville, Florida, United States
of America; 3
Department of Epidemiology and Biostatistics,
University of South Carolina, Columbia, South Carolina, United
States of America; 4
Department of Environmental, Occupational,
and Geospatial Health Sciences, Graduate School of Public Health
& Health Policy, City University of New York, New York, New
York, United States of America; 5
Division of Population Health
Surveillance, Bureau of Maternal and Child Health, South Carolina
Department of Health & Environmental Control, Columbia, South
Carolina, United States of America; 6
Department of Human
and Molecular Genetics, Virginia Commonwealth University,
Richmond, VA, United States of America; 7
Department of
Pediatrics, University of Utah, Salt Lake City, Utah, United States of
America; 8
Department of Epidemiology, College of Public Health,
University of Iowa, Iowa City, Iowa, United States of America;
9
New York State Department of Health, Albany, New York, United
States of America; 10Department of Neurology, University of South
Carolina, Columbia, South Carolina, United States of America;
11RTI International, Research Triangle Park, North Carolina,
United States of America; 12Department of Neurology, Virginia
Commonwealth University, Richmond, VA
Muscular dystrophies are a group of inherited muscle
diseases. This study investigated the genetic mutations present
in a cohort of 243 individuals diagnosed with four types of
muscular dystrophy: Emery-Dreifuss (EDMD, 21 cases), limbgirdle (LGMD, 138 cases), congenital (CMD, 62 cases), and distal
(DD, 22 cases), who received medical care between 2008 to
2016 in six regions encompassed by the Muscular Dystrophy
Surveillance, Tracking, and Research Network (MD STARnet).
Clinical data abstracted from medical records were examined
for certainty of diagnosis, demographics, genetic test findings.
The findings were reviewed and whenever possible, variants
of unknown significance (VUSs) were reclassified utilizing
updated information from genetic databases.
We reviewed 144 VUSs from 97 individuals using accepted
standard classifications systems and databases. Multiple genes
were reported from some individuals. We successfully resolved
60 VUSs to more definitive interpretations, while 84 VUSs
remained unchanged. The implications of this research are
significant for drug development and the initiation of clinical
trials. The attainment of definitive genetic diagnosis not only
facilitates timely detection of muscular dystrophy in family
members, but also empowers individuals to make informed
reproductive decisions.
Additionally, we expected to find a balanced proportion
of males and females with these muscular dystrophy subtypes;
however, substantially more males (64.6%) were identified,
even after excluding diseases caused by the X-linked gene
EMD. This study highlights the importance of replicating and
revisiting existing data in research, as well as ensuring that
outreach efforts emphasize that various muscular dystrophy
subtypes can affect both genders.
159
Investigating Ancestry-specific Genetic Variation in
Apolipoprotein L Genes Associated with Electronic Health
Record Phenotypes in Patient Biobanks
David Y. Zhang1,2 *, Michael G. Levin2,3,4, Scott M. Damrauer4,5,
Marylyn D. Ritchie1
, Daniel J. Rader1,2
1
Department of Genetics, Perelman School of Medicine, University
of Pennsylvania, 2
Department of Medicine, Perelman School of
Medicine, University of Pennsylvania, United States of America;
3
Division of Cardiovascular Medicine, Perelman School of
Medicine, University of Pennsylvania, United States of America;
4
Corporal Michael J. Crescenz VA Medical Center, Philadelphia,
Pennsylvania, United States of America; 5
Department of Surgery,
Perelman School of Medicine, University of Pennsylvania, United
States of America
Health care disparities between people of different
ancestries and ethnicities are well-documented in every field
of medicine. Of the ~6,401 studies currently compiled in the
genome-wide association studies (GWAS) catalog as of June
2023, ~95% of all GWAS participants are of European (EUR)
ancestry with less than 1% of participants being of AfricanAmerican (AFR) ancestry. Using the Penn Medicine Biobank
(PMBB) and adopting a genome-first approach, we investigated
100 predicted loss-of-function (pLOF) and 737 missense
variants in the apolipoprotein L gene family with a specific
interest in those more common in non-European populations.
We performed phenome-wide association studies (PheWAS)
on 62 variants with a MAF > 0.1% in the PMBB AFR population
(n = 11,198) against 1,236 binary phenotypes derived from
electronic health records data with at least 20 cases. Our results
identified a stop-gain variant rs11089781 (p.Gln58*) in the
APOL3 gene found to be significantly associated with increased
risk for end-stage renal disease (ESRD) (OR = 1.38, p = 3.64e-08).
This variant has a gnomAD minor allele frequency of 0.22 in AFR
compared to 3.97e-04 in EUR. It is also in linkage equilibrium
(r
2
 < 0.05) with the APOL1 G1 and G2 known risk alleles for
renal disease. Replication of this association in up to 121,790
AFR individuals from the Million Veterans Program also yielded
a significant association with ESRD (OR = 1.16, p = 1.01e-08).
Initial hypotheses suggest that APOL3 may play a protective
role against APOL1 and loss-of-function in APOL3 increases
susceptibility to APOL1-induced kidney dysfunction.
Page 60 The 2023 Annual Meeting of the International Genetic Epidemiology Society
160
CellGRN: An Improved Identification Method for Gene
Regulatory Networks
Jane Zhao 1
, Mingyao Li 2
1
School for Advanced Studies - South; Miami Dade College -
Kendall, Miami, Florida, United States of America; 2
Perelman
School of Medicine, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia,
Pennsylvania, United States of America
Identifying gene regulatory networks (GRNs) correctly is
vital in advancing our understanding of disease mechanisms,
drug discovery, and personalized medicine. However, it is a
challenging task due to the complexity and dynamic nature
of gene regulation. CellNet is a popular and useful tool in
identification of GRNs but with a major limitation by using the
average gene expression across cells in a tissue and ignoring
possible cell-to-cell heterogeneity. That is, CellNet defines
the status of a GRN in a query sample as weighted mean of Z
scores of genes in the GRN where the absolute gene expression
level serves as the weight. Ignoring cell-to-cell heterogeneity
can obscure important regulatory mechanisms and functional
differences between cells, mask biologically relevant variations,
and fail to capture important regulatory relationships.  To
overcome this limitation, we propose cell-GRN which defines
the GRN status score as summation of GRN status scores of all
genes in that GRN, while each gene’s GRN status score is the
summation of cell specific Z scores estimated by cell proportion
weighted gene expressions. Cell proportions can be estimated
with MuSiC2 software. To assess the performance of Cell-GRN,
we applied both Cell-GRN and CellNet to a iPSC fetal liver
organoid (FeLO), and designer liver organoids (DesLO) RNAseq data (GSE159491). Compared with CellNet, Cell-GRN has an
increased liver classification score (mean=0.54 of Cell-GRN vs.
0.46 of CellNet). Further analysis with two RNA-seq datasets:
1) 12 autism patients and 12 controls (GSE64018); 2) cerebral
organoids differentiated from nine donors with 16p11.2
deletions versus 12 control donors (GSE200851), demonstrated
that Cell-GRN can identify more autism associated GRNs than
CellNet in both datasets.
161
Using Longitudinal EHRs to Identify Medical Conditions
Enriched in Individuals who Later Received Diagnosis of
Alzheimer’s Disease
Xue Zhong1,2#, Gengjie Jia3
, Zhijun Yin4,5, Kerou Chen5
, Andrey
Rzhetsky3,6,7, Nancy J. Cox1,2
1
Department of Medicine, Division of Genetic Medicine, Vanderbilt
University Medical Center, Nashville, Tennessee, United States
of America; 2
Vanderbilt Genetics Institute, Nashville, Tennessee,
United States of America 3
Department of Medicine, Institute
of Genomics and Systems Biology, Committee on Genomics,
Genetics, and Systems Biology, University of Chicago, Chicago,
Illinois, United States of America; 4
Department of Biomedical
Informatics, Vanderbilt University Medical Center, Nashville,
Tennessee, United States of America; 5
Department of Computer
Science, Vanderbilt University, Nashville, Tennessee, United
States of America; 6
Department of Human Genetics, University of
Chicago, Chicago, Illinois, United States of America; 7
Committee
on Genomics, Genetics and Systems Biology, University of Chicago,
Chicago, Illinois, United States of America
#Corresponding author: xue.zhong@vumc.org
Several mid-life health conditions have been linked to an
increased risk of Alzheimer’s disease (AD) in later life. Here,
we seek to comprehensively identify medical conditions that
overrepresent in individuals who later develop AD and assess
the genetic basis of these conditions. We use two electronic
health records (EHR) datasets (>150 million individuals) for
discovery and replication purpose. Using ICD diagnosis codes,
we identify AD cases and age- and gender-matched controls at
1:10 ratio, then trace back 10 years in their EHRs and compare
between the two groups their medical conditions during the
10-year window. We identify ~43,500 and ~1,300 AD cases,
respectively, in MarketScan (MS); in both datasets, 80% of the
AD cases have their first diagnosis of AD at age 75 years or older.
Comparison of the medical profiles between the AD cases and
matched controls, reveals 406 and 102 enriched phenotypes
associated with AD status in MS and VUMC, respectively.
Mental disorders and neurological symptoms dominate the
enriched phenotypes in both datasests. To further identify
“causal” phenotypes of AD, we perform PheWAS of AD risk
variants in BioVU and UK Biobank. More than 20 of the enriched
phenotypes, including hyperlipidemia, hypertension, cerebral
ischemia, memory loss, and mild cognitive impairment etc., are
significantly associated with AD risk variants or polygenic
risk scores. In conclusion, longitudinal EHRs from millions of
individuals enables a comprehensive detection of medical
conditions enriched in future AD cases, and a small portion of
the phenotypes show evidence for a causal link to AD.
Key words: Alzheimer’s disease, PheWAS, EHR, electronic
medical records
162
A Multiomics Machine Learning Approach to Characterize
Genetic Architecture and Map Traits of Plasma Lipidome in
Hispanics/Latinos
W. Zhu1*, A. Petty1
, L. Petty1
, J. Curran2
, P. Meikle3,4, J. McCormick5
,
S. Fisher-Hoch5
, K. North6
, E. Gamazon1,7, J. Below1
1
Division of Genetic Medicine, Department of Medicine, Vanderbilt
Genetics Institute, Vanderbilt University Medical Center, Nashville,
Tennessee, United States of America; 2
Department of Human
Genetics and South Texas Diabetes and Obesity Institute, University
of Texas Rio Grande Valley, School of Medicine, Brownsville, Texas,
United States of America; 3
Metabolomics Laboratory, Baker Heart
and Diabetes Institute, Melbourne, State of Victoria, Australia;
4
Baker Department of Cardiometabolic Health, University of
Melbourne, Parkville, State of Victoria, Australia; 5
Department of
Epidemiology, Human Genetics and Environmental Sciences, The
University of Texas Health Science Center at Houston School of
Public Health, Brownsville Regional Campus, Brownsville, Texas,
United States of America; 6
Department of Epidemiology, University
of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, Chapel Hill, North Carolina,
United States of America; 7
MRC Epidemiology Unit, University of
Cambridge, Cambridge, United Kingdom
Traditional lipid measures such as HDL and LDL are
accessible in many cohorts; however, they are insufficient to
characterize the dynamic and subtle changes of lipid species
and classes. Alternatively, lipidomics provides a complete view
of the underlying lipid metabolism within individuals, thus it has
become a valuable resource in recent genetic studies. Although 
Presentation Abstracts Page 61
large GWAS studies in Caucasians discovered hundreds of lipidrelated variants, these findings may not capture genetic risk
factors in minority groups. Similarly, prediction models trained
on Caucasian dataset tend to have poor translation across
populations.
Our study aims to address existing issues by utilizing
lipidomics and genotype data in Cameron County Hispanic
Cohort. We performed lipidome wide GWASs in 2289 individual
across 49 lipid classes and 830 lipid species, using linear mixed
models adjusted for sex, age, age2, BMI, PCs, and relatedness.
We constructed a maximum independent set (n=1680) as
the training set for prediction models. Prior to model fitting,
lipid traits were normalized for sex, age and PCs, and variants
were filtered by GWAS P values. Elastic net regressions were
run with 10-fold cross validation and grid search for model
selection. Remaining samples not involved in training were
used to evaluate model performance. Our GWASs identified
approximately 9,000 significant variants for 830 lipid species
from 49 lipid classes across most chromosomes. We identified
novel signals close to genes such as BASP1, PACSIN2, and MCAT,
which have been linked to lipid binding and metabolism. The
performances of our prediction models aligned with SNP based
heritability.
163
Genetic Factors for Differentiated Thyroid Cancer in French
Polynesia: New Candidate Loci
Monia Zidane1
, Marc Haber2,3, Thérèse Truong4
, Frédérique
Rachédi5
, Catherine Ory6
, Sylvie Chevillard6
, Hélène Blanché7
,
Robert Olaso8
, Anne Boland8
, Éric Conte9
, Mojgan Karimi4
,
Yan Ren1
, Constance Xhaard10, Vincent Souchard1
, Jacques
Gardon11, Marc Taquet12, André Bouville13, Jean-François
Deleuze7,8, Vladimir Drozdovitch14, Florent de Vathaire1
, JeanBaptiste Cazier2,3
1
University Paris-Saclay, UVSQ, Inserm, Gustave Roussy, CESP,
Team “Radiations Epidemiology”, Villejuif, France; 2
Centre for
Computational Biology, University of Birmingham, Birmingham,
United Kingdom; 3
Institute of Cancer and Genomic Sciences,
University of Birmingham, Birmingham, United Kingdom;
4
University Paris-Saclay, UVSQ, Inserm, Gustave Roussy, CESP,
Team “Exposome and Heredity”, Villejuif, France; 5
Endocrinology
Unit, Territorial Hospital Taaone, Papeete, Tahiti, French Polynesia;
6
CEA, Laboratoire de Cancérologie Fondamentale, Institut de
Biologie François Jacob, iRCM, SREIT, Laboratoire de Cancérologie
Expérimentale (LCE), Université Paris-Saclay, France; 7
Fondation
Jean Dausset-Centre d’Etude du Polymorphisme Humain, Paris,
France; 8
Université Paris-Saclay, CEA, Centre National de Recherche
en Génomique Humaine, Evry, France; 9
U.S.R. 2003 (CNRS / UPF),
Faa’a, Tahiti, France; 10University of Lorraine, INSERM CIC 1433,
Nancy CHRU, INSERM U1116, Nancy, France; 11Hydrosciences
Montpellier, Research Institute for Development, CNRS, University
of Montpellier, Montpellier, France; 12Research Institute for
Development, Center IRD on Tahiti, Arue, Tahiti, French Polynesia,
13National Cancer Institute (retired), Bethesda, Maryland, United
States of America; 14Division of Cancer Epidemiology and Genetics,
National Cancer Institute, NIH, DHHS, Bethesda, Maryland, United
States of America
Presenting author: Monia Zidane, INSERM U1018, 114 rue
Edouard Vaillant, 94805 Villejuif Cedex, France, monia.zidane@
gustaveroussy.fr
Corresponding author: Florent de Vathaire, Cancer and Radiation,
INSERM U1018, 114 rue Edouard Vaillant, 94805 Villejuif Cedex,
France, florent.devathaire@gustaveroussy.fr
Context: Populations of French Polynesia (FP), where
France performed atmospheric tests between 1966 and 1974,
experience a high incidence of differentiated thyroid cancer
(DTC). However, up to now, no sufficiently large study of DTC
genetic factors in this population has been performed to reach
a definitive conclusion.
Objective: To analyze the genetic factors of DTC risk
among the native FP populations.
Methods: We analyzed more than 300,000 single
nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) genotyped in 283 DTC cases
and 418 matched controls born in FP, most being younger than
15 years old at the time of the first nuclear tests. We analyzed the
genetic profile of our cohort to identify population subgroups.
We then completed a genome-wide analysis study on the
whole population.
Results: We identified a specific genetic structure in the
FP population reflecting admixture from Asian and European
populations. We identified three regions associated with
increased DTC risk at 6q24.3, 10p12.2, and 17q21.32. The lead
SNPs at these loci show respective p values of 1.66 x 10-7, 2.39 x
10-7 and 7.19 x 10-7 and corresponding odds ratios of 2.02, 1.89,
and 2.37.
Conclusion: Our study results suggest the role of the loci
6q24.3, 10p12.2 and 17q21.32 in DTC risk. However, a whole
genome sequencing approach would be better suited to
characterize these factors than genotyping with microarray
chip designed for the Caucasian population. Moreover, the
functional impact of these three new loci needs to be further
explored and validated.
164
Robust Rare Variant Association Testing for Skewed Traits:
Application to Model-based Disease Predictions in the UK
Biobank
Andrey Ziyatdinov1
, Joseph Herman1
, Joelle Mbatchou1
, Adrian
Campos1
, Carlo Sidore1
, Manuel Ferreira1
, Jonathan Marchini1
1
Regeneron Genetics Center, Tarrytown, New York, United States of
America
Machine learning derived traits can enhance the
performance of genome-wide association studies. However,
these traits often exhibit extreme skewness, that leads to the
Type I inflation at rare variants and hinders novel discoveries
from sequencing data. Continuous disease predictions can
look like unbalanced categories and make widely used rankbased trait transformations ineffective. To address this issue, we
developed an extension to the Moment-Corrected Correlation
(MCC) test and integrated it into REGENIE.
MCC does not rely on the normal approximation for the
test statistic r, the Pearson correlation between trait and tested
variable. Instead, MCC analytically approximates the distribution
of permuted r using the moment-matching approach and a Beta
distribution. However, previous implementations of MCC fail
when testing rare variants at large sample sizes. Here, we use r2
Page 62 The 2023 Annual Meeting of the International Genetic Epidemiology Society
to construct our test statistic and a shifted Gamma distribution
for approximation. The REGENIE whole-genome regression
model accounts for relatedness, population structure, and
polygenic effects.
We applied this MCC test to exome-wide association studies
in the UK Biobank for several traits, including eye-image-derived
class predictions for Age-related Macular Degeneration (AMD),
liability-threshold family-history scores for Alzheimer’s Disease
(AD), the number of hospital visits averaged over 10 years for
Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease cases. For each trait,
the rare-variant test statistic was severely inflated using the
standard score test (even after rank-based transformations),
while our MCC-based approach produced well calibrated
results. MCC uncovered many rare variant associations which
replicated in a larger meta-analysis of related binary traits.
Examples include known rare-variant and burden associations
in the PSEN1 gene for AD and in the CFI and CFH genes for AMD.